Rakesh Mohan Chaturvedi
  NEW DELHI: Exit polls conducted by various polling agencies for news channels have predicted that BJP would retain Gujarat with a reduced margin of seats in the 182-member assembly, though one of them predicted a sweep. The Congress tally was predicted to go up by a few seats.If the projections are correct, it means BJPs campaign led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has triumphed over Congress yet again in Gujarat. Modis sway over voters and connect with the people seems to have won the day for BJP. The exit polls show BJP doing well in north Gujarat and Saurashtra where the youth trio of Hardik Patel, Alpesh Thakor and Jignesh Mevani were active in the run-up to the elections.Five exit polls predicted BJP to win Gujarat comfortably. News24-Chanakya gave it maximum seats, 135, against 47 for Congress. India Today-Axis gave BJP the lowest victory margin, with its tally predicted to be between 99 and 107 seats.Congress tally varied between 68 and 92 and 1-4 seats were given to others. Times NOW-VMR exit poll predicted 113 seats for BJP, 70 to Congress and 3 to others and C-Voter-ToI online survey said BJP would get 108 seats and Congress 74. ABP-CSDS, which gave 43% vote share each to Congress and BJP in opinion polls, said BJP was likely to get 117 seats while Congress would get 64.Almost all exit polls said BJP would retain its 2012 vote share of 47%, while Congress share would go up from 38% to 41-43%. However, News24-Chanakya said Congress vote percentage would remain at 38%.BJP had worked to counter the possible backlash from the Patidar quota agitation by wooing Backward communities such as Kolis, Prajapatis, Chaudharies, Bharwad and others which together are numerically sizable. If BJP does well in the north Gujarat and Saurashtra, it would mean Hardik Patel attracted big crowds but failed to convert them into votes for the Congress. If exit polls are correct, Patidars have stayed loyal to BJP despite the agitation for quota.The Narmada waters reaching up to Kutch through Saurashtra, the flood relief in north Gujarat, the increase in purchase price of milk have helped BJP. The party may have also benefitted from issues like Ayodhya, Mani Shankar Aiyars neech remark and Prime Minister Narendra Modis speeches related to security.Congress president-elect Rahul Gandhi created ripples which could rejuvenate the party in the coming months. However, it will have to work towards strengthening its grassroots. Majority voters may have felt it was not yet a viable alternative to BJP and lacks state leaders of stature. If the exit poll predictions come true, this would be the sixth consecutive win for BJP after 1995, 1998, 2002, 2007 and 2012. The projections show BJP doing well in all regions of Gujarat, from the north to Saurashtra and south Gujarat.  