TNN
  The High-voltage Gujarat Assembly campaign has already ended and the results are due tomorrow. Here are A to Z of the poll campaigning:  A  AURANGZEB RAJ | PM Modi gave the example of Aiyars comparison of dynastic rule and wished the Congress the best of luck for it.AMETHI | It found a way into Amit Shahs speech in two references  Congress couldnt win seat there in the recent UP elections; and people of Amethi come to Gujarat seeking jobs.  B  B BLUETOOTH | The hardware put Congress on the alert when a number of EVMs allegedly showed ECO code in nearby devices.BLUE WHALE | The game ending in suicide was mentioned by the PM in his speech in which he claimed that Dec 18 results would be the last day of the Congress.  C  CHAI | Rahul Gandhi savoured a cuppa at Dakor while Modi thundered that he would sell tea but not the country.  D  DEMONETIZATION | Notebandi, along with GST, were heavily criticized by the Congress in hubs like Surat and Morbi while Modi said at rallies that demonetization and the tax had hit the Congress hard.  E  E EXIT POLL | Hours after the second phase of voting was over, exit poll results predicted a victory for the BJP. It was trending on #1 on Twitter in India on Dec 14  F  F FATWA | PM Modi termed an advice to the Christians from an archbishop of Gandhinagar, fatwa, and gave several examples of how their rashtra prem knew no region or religionFIXED PAY | The fixed pay system was severely criticised by many supporters of the Congress, including a professor and ASHA workers.  G  GABBAR SINGH TAX| Rahul Gandhi equated GST with the psychopathic villain of the film, Sholay, in each of his rallies. Modi countered it with Grand Stupid Thought.  H  HARD WORK | Modi said that he one can do wonders with hard work and achieve what people from Harvard couldnt.HAPPINESS INDEX | Congress included it in its election manifesto as Rahul Gandhi talked about pyaar ka politics during the campaign.  I  INDIRA GANDHI | The former Prime Minister found mention in Modis election speech at Morbi when Modi said how she had covered her nose with a handkerchief when he and others were cleaning up the city after Machchu tragedy.  J  JANEUDHARI | Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala described Rahul Gandhi as Janeudhari Brahmin after a row over his religion after Gandhis visit to Somnath temple.  K  KARADIYA RAJPUT | The community started agitation and threatened that it would ensure that the BJP was defeated if the state BJP chief was not shown door after a tiff. BJP leadership later brokered a peace.  L  LOAN WAIVER | Rahul Gandhi repeated his promise that within 10 days of the formation of the Congress government in the state, the party will start the process of waiving farmer loans.  M  MAGICIAN | PM Modi was called magician by Rahul Gandhi who made money disappear from Gujarat. BJPs plan to bring in magicians from other states to engage voters was also ridiculed by the Congress.MUSHROOM | OBC leader Alpesh Thakor alleged that eating Taiwanese mushrooms was the secret behind Modis tomato-red cheeks.  N  NEECH | Congress leader Mani Shankar Aiyar raked up a controversy when he called Modi neech kism ka aadmi. Modi made emotional appeals to Gujarat voters to avenge through ballot this insult of a son of Gujarat.NARMADA DAM | BJP claimed full credit for completing the Narmada dam project whose construction had taken 30 years. PM Modi claimed that former PM Manmohan Singh did not give him time to discuss the dams height  O  OCKHI | The cyclone temporarily stole the thunder from the high-pitched election campaign but dissipated without affecting election dates.  P  PAKISTAN | Modi accused the neighbouring country of meddling in Gujarat elections.POTATO | The humble tuber came into limelight when Rahul Gandhi emulated Modis promise of converting potato into gold and turned it into a memePAPPU | EC banned the use of the word to describe Rahul Gandhi.  Q  Q QUOTA | Patidars fight for a quota had an enormous impact on the state polls. Congress has promised a formula which the BJP has dismissed as constitutionally invalid.  R  RAM MANDIR | BJP seized on the issue after Congress leader Kapil Sibal appeared in Supreme Court and requested it to defer the hearing till after 2019 LS polls.RAFALE | The deal for fighter jets was one of the two major allegations of corruption against the NDA government. It found mention in each of Rahul Gandhis speeches.  S  SEA PLANE | PM Modi travelled to Dharoi dam from Sabarmati riverfront in this aircraft amid much publicity and fanfareSEXTAPES | Avalanche of sex-clips of PAAS leader Hardik Patel and his aides went viral on social media ahead of the elections.SAAS-BAHU SAGA | Rangeshwari Chauhan, estranged wife of BJP MP Prabhatsinh Chauhan, made the BJPs fight tough in Kalol constituency when the MPs daughter-in-law Suman, older than Rangeshwari, was given the BJP ticket  T  TEMPLE RUN | Both Rahul Gandhi and Modi engaged in it by visiting every major temple in the state  U  UDYOGPATI MITRA | Rahul Gandhis oftused jibe at Modis 5-10 industrialist friends who had allegedly benefited most out of the Gujarat model.  V  VIKAS | After PAAS and Congress came up with vikas had gone crazy, the BJP embraced it as its poll plank and came out with a string of videos and slogans asserting the states developmentVVPAT | Supreme Court turned down the Congress plea to count VVPAT slips in Gujarat elections.  W  WOMEN CANDIDATES | The number of women fielded by the two parties was again small  Congress fielded 10 women candidates while the BJP gave ticket to 12. This despite talk of 33% reservation for women.  X  X FACTOR | After development, caste emerged as the primary variable while choosing candidates. OBCs and Patidars established themselves as communities that cannot ignored.  Y  YOUTH POLITICS/ YOUNG TURKS | Three young leaders  Hardik Patel, Alpesh Thakor and Jignesh Mevani  infused fresh blood in the states politics. Earlier, both the major parties primarily relied on old hands.Y CATEGORY | Hardik Patel initially refused Y category protection saying that it might be misused for snooping.  Z  ZERO VOTER TURNOUT | A couple of villages in the state like Gajadi near Morbi boycotted the election over local issues and did not cast a single vote in protest.  