ET CONTRIBUTORS
By Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay  The concept of angry young man  or men  is cinematic, literary and sociological too. The phrase may have been originally coined in Britain in the mid-1950s to promote a John Osborne play and in time was used to denote a group of writers, but in India, it came to life in the first half of the 1970s, a period that witnessed the emergence of a new cinematic energy in films like Zanjeer and Deewar, which uncharacteristically struck a chord with the audience, especially the youth.The India of the 1970s began the decade basking under the glory of victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, the creation of Bangladesh and Indira Gandhis spectacular election victory. Added to this was the rise in Indias global clout because of Pokhran I. Yet, with the government squandering the opportunities those victories created, space was provided for social unrest and the emergence of a new popular cinema. The streets resounded with dialogues mouthed by Amitabh Bachchan, the slogans of Navnirman movement in Gujarat and Sampoorna Kranti in India.Youth power was evident once again in the merciless ejection of an entrenched party and the humiliating defeat of an iconic leader, considered no less inferior to a goddess. The impact of the youth on the Gujarat polls will be known on December 18, but they have demonstrated, with the emergence of the Patidar agitation, that they are not yet a co-opted demographic group.While the jury is still out on whether Hardik Patel, Alpesh Thakor and Jignesh Mevani are the Lalu Yadavs, Nitish Kumars and Ram Vilas Paswans  even Narendra Modis  of the future, there is no denying that youth power has forced a churning in Gujarat politics.The states youth of today are not diffident but have been increasingly assertive with a chutzpah that few believed they possessed. Witness, for instance, the response of Hardik and his supporters to the leaked CD of his frolics. Of the 3Ws, the first is on the proscribed list in Gujarat and the shortfall of the last one  wealth  has been the basis of movements or agitations witnessed since 2015. But this did not hamper Hardik from adopting a so-what attitude and getting public endorsement for his stance.The troika of youth leaders who rallied against the BJP demonstrated that social contradictions need not always come in the way of political association. It is not that the youth has en bloc abandoned the BJP because for every Hardik, Alpesh or Jignesh, there are countless others who continue to back Modi and the BJP. But this election has been all about youth power.Whatever the results, political parties, ruling or opposition, will ignore this constituency at great risk. Aspirations of the demographic group cannot remain confined to slogans but must find adequate representation in policy initiatives. Time and again, despite the Indian tradition of respecting elders, youngsters have taken political lead. From the time of the freedom struggle, young men and women have been icons and secured support across generations. Gujarat 2017 has just been a reiteration of youth power. It is for the political leadership to recognise this.  (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is the author of Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times)