Vasudha Venugopal
  NEW DELHI: Gujarat elections this time were fought as much on social media as on the ground. While BJP created over 45,000 WhatsApp groups to reach out to over 50-lakh people through its hu chu vikaas campaign, Congress tapped volunteers to send them regular content on how BJP was not delivering on the development promise.It all started with Congress vikaas gando thayo che campaign which came up when a young man saw a truck dashing over a divider in his area and suddenly this tagline came to his mind which he posted on Facebook and it went viral. It was soon picked up by Congress.BJP was quick to respond with its hu chu vikaas campaign, driving the message that people of Gujarat were proud of the strides made by the state. Explaining that the party mostly used WhatsApp and Facebook, BJP foreign affairs head Vijay Chauthaiwale  who is currently in charge of the partys social media campaign in Gujarat  said on Facebook two months back: In Gujarat, Congress and BJP had 2 lakh followers. While Gujarat BJP increased it to 25 lakh, Congress increased by just 1 lakh. Our job was to send a positive message to the youth. Any video, message could reach anyone in a matter of seconds.Chauthaiwale said a new thing that the party did was to request people for videos on how the government had benefitted them. We got enormous response on how the electricity situation had improved, how they were getting free medical treatment, how the infrastructure had developed We classified them into 10 categories and distributed it back to people. Political messaging on social media was videos made on Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and Vijay Rupanis speeches.After Hardik Patels defiance on a sleaze video allegedly featuring him, BJP used videos made by a Patidar girl on how such an attitude was bringing disgrace to the community. The party also propagated videos of sane voices from Patidar elders warning the youth not to get led by promises made by opportunistic people. Backed by 700 young men, Hardik Patels team operated eight broadcast groups on WhatsApp with each having over 200 recipients.There were around 1,000 Facebook pages, excluding individual accounts. The most popular was the one that ran by the name Patidar virodhi BJP. Congress leaders said they employed people from other states in Gujarat. They said they didnt promote vikaas gando thayo che campaign as it was found to be hurting Gujarati sentiment.  