Amit Mudgill
  NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi may have managed a face-saving victory in the Gujarat election, but Dalal Street has sat up and taken note of the fact that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is finally getting counted among Indias electorate. The Gandhi scion, who got elevated as the president of the opposition party over the weekend, made a valiant bid to dethrone the saffron party in the PMs home state. And going by the final seat and vote share numbers, analysts are convinced the junior Gandhi is beginning to make a mark. The BJP also wrested Himachal Pradesh, thanks to the tradition of anti-incumbency vote in the state, giving investors the much-needed relief. In Gujarat, the ruling BJP vote failed to match 2012s seat tally of 116, but secured nearly 100 seats to win a comfortable majority. But the buzz on Dalal Street on Monday afternoon whirled around Rahul Gandhis bounceback from being one barely counted to a leader to reckon with. Analysts say the Gandhi scion is finally beginning to prove himself and could pose a serious risk to BJPs 2019 re-election dream. Though there are still many rivers to cross for Rahul Gandhi, said one analyst. Heres how some of the top analysts reacted to the election outcome: Alastair Newton, Alavan Business Advisory, says Rahul has lifted his game significantly by all accounts. He believes Gandhi deserves a good deal of credit for what is a very creditable result for the Congress. There is no question about that. Is the Congress capable of raising its game in the national elections to the extent that we have seen in Gujarat? Not at all clear. It is still early days for Rahul. He seems to have come through the test in Gujarat with flying colours and certainly this will be a big boost to Congress moral, Newton said. However, he said one should not underestimate the power of the BJP's 'election-fighting machine'. The Congress has got a mountain to climb to really contest the next general election on a national basis with a serious chance of coming in with a majority. The risk is that we end up with a hung Parliament and a lot of horse trading after that would frankly not be welcomed by investors, the expert said. In 2019, it is going to be Modi versus Gandhi, and frankly, I think that Rahul will have a lot on his plate to try to take on the Modi factor, he said. Sonal Varma, Nomura India said the BJP is likely to emerge the winner in both states and with a higher vote share, albeit with a lower seat tally in Gujarat compared to 2012. "Gujarat result will be a slight negative surprise for markets, given opinion and exit polls on average suggested a 111-117 seat win, while the HP win was also marginally smaller than expected (46-50 seats)," she said. As the election calendar remains heavy in 2018, Nomura India expects some shades of populism to emerge next year, with a focus on polices with both economic and political benefits. Arun Thukral, MD & CEO at Axis Securities said that given the fact that the vote tally is slightly lower than that in 2012, it would be a signal for the government at the Centre to speed up on the unfinished agenda of creating jobs, empowerment of women, improvement in earnings and living condition of the lower class and rural population, creation of better infrastructure, livable spaces for the urban folks etc. "Now, the market will focus on quarterly earnings starting and Budget 2018, said Thukral. Ajay Bodke, CEO & Chief Portfolio Manager, PMS, Prabhudas Lilladher said the BJP's convincing victory in Gujarat after overcoming 22 long years of so-called anti-incumbency is particularly significant as it was achieved despite a virulently casteist campaign unleashed by the Opposition. The demonising of major structural reforms like the GST and demonetisation as squarely rejected by the electorate. This would reinforce government's resolve to roll-on reforms jaggarnaut benefiting the economy & markets. This would lead to acceleration in foreign and domestic direct & portfolio investments, he said. Rakesh Tarway, Head of Research at Reliance Securities, said the hard-fought victory for the incumbent government of 22 years in Gujarat will provide further impetus to the reform orientation of the ruling party. This government has brought on stable reforms, which are more than incremental in nature. Any further impetus on the same will prove to be a sentimental boost for equity markets. Having said that, equity market is eventually a slave of earnings and will track the same for future performance, he said.  