Bikash Singh
  Guwahati: Emboldened by the election results in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) is confident that its winning streak will continue in the northeastern region as well, as it hopes the region to be Congre-free by 2018.As many as four northeastern states are going to polls in 2018. At present, Congress is the ruling party in Meghalaya and Mizoram, while the Left Front is ruling Tripura. In Nagaland, the Democratic Alliance of Nagaland has partnered with BJP to form the ruling government.Meghalaya, Tripura and Nagaland will go to polls early next year and Mizoram will go to polls later in 2018.BJP has built a strong base of cadre and network of organisations in these states.Prime Minister Narendra Modi began BJPs poll campaign in Meghalaya last week. Modi inaugurated a road project and committed an investment of Rs 90,000 crore in the next two to three years for building roads and highways in Northeast India. Modi dedicated of the 60 Mega-Watt Tuirial Hydro-power Project to the nation in Mizoram.BJPs strategist for Northeast India and convener of the Northeast Democratic Alliance (NEDA) Himanta Biswa Sarma hopes that the party's dream of a Congress-mukt northeastern region could be achieved by 2018.In Tripura, BJP cadres are locked in a bitter clash with the Left Front cadres. The rivalry in the region resonates with that of Kerala, where violence against right-wing leaders and activists has become a major concern. The Left Front has been ruling Tripura for the past 24 years.Mrinal Kanti Deb, spokesperson of Tripura BJP unit told ET: It is for the first time that the CPI(M) is facing an organised cadre-based party like BJP. The victory in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh has further emboldened us.The left front is facing a tough competition in Tripura with Congress adopting a favourable disposition towards the Left, adds Deb.Senior CPI(M) leader Gautam Das added, Tripura is different from other states; the vote share of BJP in Gujarat has come down and this shows the partys popularity is waning. Left Front will retain Tripura and with every election our vote share is increasing in Tripura.In a bid to increase its appeal in the region, BJP is trying to woo Christian voters. BJPs minister in charge for Meghalaya, Alphons Kannanthanam, has conducted several interactive sessions with the state's Church leaders.Meghalaya, Nagaland and Mizoram are regions having a high number of Christians- a fact that the BJP would like to capitalise on.Northeast India is Eshaan Kon. Like we need to keep the northeast corner of the house clean and orderly to ensure a healthy and prosperous family, we need to bring order in Northeast India as well. Without this, development in the country is not possible" said a senior BJP leader, while adding: "Only BJP can bring order in the region.Congress is ruling Mizoram for third consecutive term; the grand old party has been in power in Meghalaya for over a decade now.Early this year, Congress lost power in Manipur and in 2016 congress it was voted out of power in Assam.  