Rakesh Mohan Chaturvedi
  NEW DELHI: Congress may have lost the Gujarat elections but there were some silver linings for the party and this should serve as a shot in the arm for the Grand Old Party in the coming polls in states like Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan as well as the general elections in 2019.Gujarat being the citadel of the BJP under Narendra Modi for the last one and a half decades, Congress clearly went into the campaign with the aim of making a dent as a victory seemed virtually impossible. It has increased its vote share by an impressive 7 per cent (up from 38 per cent in 2012 to 45 per cent this time) in these elections and the trends show a majority of the young voters have leaned towards it.Congress President Rahul Gandhi's consistent campaigning, flagging of issues like farmer distress, unemployment and problems in implementation of Goods and Services Tax have helped the party. The three young leaders- Hardik Patel, Alpesh Thakor and Jignesh Mevani have also contributed to the Congress increasing its vote share.The party has done well in the Saurashtra-Kutch region which shows it continues to have a hold on the rural voters and farmers' grievances should be a worry for the BJP. The farmers in Saurashtra are unhappy as they have not got the promised MSP for their cotton and groundnut crops.However, lack of a prominent leader in Gujarat was one of the major factors why Congress failed to get the numbers. It depended heavily on Gandhi and the three young leaders to deliver. Its seniormost state leaders like Arjun Modvadia and Shaktisinh Gohil have lost the election. The party will have to work on this in other states. It has done well in states like Punjab and earlier in Himachal Pradesh and undivided Andhra Pradesh as it had strong state leaders like Captain Amrinder Singh, Virbhadra Singh (in 2012) and YSR Reddy (in 2009 Assembly and general elections) respectively.Gandhi taking over as Congress chief and his new found seriousness towards politics should serve the party well in the forthcoming Assembly elections. Given a free hand, Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah should give a good fight to BJP in the elections due early next year. BJP is also facing strong anti-incumbency in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh and Congress is the main opponent in these two states.Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP Chief Amit Shah are formidable opponents, Congress can hope to take on the saffron surge with the help of other opposition parties in the 2019 elections.Rahul Gandhi will have to draw lessons from his mother Sonia who dealt effectively with opposition leaders like Sharad Pawar, Lalu Prasad and Mulayam Singh Yadav over the years and managed to do business with them. He already has good equations with the young turks of opposition parties like Akhilesh Yadav (SP) and Tejasawi Yadav (RJD).Regardless of who wins the electoral contests in 2018 and the grand finale in 2019, it is clear that these will be well-fought if the performance of the Congress in Gujarat is any indication.  