Rakesh Mohan Chaturvedi
  NEW DELHI: Faced with several new challenges and a natural anti-incumbency after being in power for 22 consecutive years, BJP had a tough challenge in Gujarat, but managed a majority in the 182-member assembly due to concrete, practical planning on the ground and a ruthless, no-holdsbarred campaign against Congress.The Patidar quota agitation, farmer distress, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah having moved to the Centre since 2014 and a resurgent Congress campaign under Rahul Gandhi and its alliance with Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani, OBC face Alpesh Thakor and Hardik Patel made it a tough election for BJP. Since 2002, BJP has won elections in Gujarat under Modi mainly on the issue of Hindutva, which overrode all caste equations. However, this time not only did Congress try soft Hindutva with Gandhi visiting temples and sporting a tika on his forehead, it also consciously avoided falling into any attempt by BJP to get trapped in the polarisation debate till the second phase.In the wake of these developments, BJP had chalked out a strategy to get the votes of all the smaller OBC groups which are at the receiving end of the dominant Patidars in villages. The party also gave tickets to 11 of the 14 Congress MLAs who had walked into its camp during the Rajya Sabha polls.BJP chief Shah virtually camped in Gujarat for two months in the runup to the election. That it is a close call became clear to BJP after the December 9 polls, which went the Congress way. This led BJP to bank on PMs charisma more heavily and he held 34 public meetings. The sea plane over Sabarmati was also an event aimed at sending across the message that the BJP government has dealt with the water crisis in the state.Modi began his campaign with son of the soil and Gujarati asmita (pride) as his theme song. The faux pas by Kapil Sibal, who asked the SC to hear the Ayodhya Ram temple issue only from July 2019, and the neech remark by Mani Shankar Aiyar gave BJP the opportunity to polarise the election and cash in on the emotional connect the masses have with Modi. Having won the Gujarat election by a thin margin, BJP will have to draw lessons from these polls. The next face-off will be in Karnataka. BJP dispensations in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are facing strong anti-incumbency and Congress is its main adversary in both the states. The growing popularity of Rahul Gandhi is another challenge and if he stays consistent, 2019 elections may become a Modi versus Gandhi battle.Congress is also likely to continue playing the soft Hindutva card to counter all BJP moves. BJP continues to be weak in the rural areas where Congress has got a higher number of seats. Another concern for the party would be the youth voting overwhelmingly for Congress in Gujarat. Lastly, BJP will have to deliver  be it economic growth, job creation or farmer welfare. The 2019 polls will be as much about performance of the government as it would be about Modis charisma.  