Aakar Patel
  The Prime Minister is the most talented politician of our time. A few weeks ago, the BJP leadership in Gujarat was talking about 150 seats.Once he entered the campaign, Narendra Modi sensed that it would be tight. So he did what he has done so often before: roll up his sleeves and fling himself into the fray.It can be said about his campaigning that it is nasty, divisive and ultimately damaging to India. However, he operates in a culture where this is acceptable and, perhaps, even approved.It is his will and his focus that dragged the party over the line once again.In such a polarised state, there are not many undecided voters. The job for Modi was not to make promises, it was to ensure that his supporters turned out to vote. Though voting was about three points down from the last election, it was still high enough to ensure the BJP would win.This was entirely the doing of Modi.The BJP pretended that it was campaigning on development. It wasnt.It pushed Hindutva, dividing Gujaratis, dividing Indians, and benefiting from this, cooking its khichdi again over the fires of communalism.It won. All of us should think about what this means for us as voters and as Indians.What about the Congress? It fought well, but couldnt inject energy and narrative into the battle. Four mass mobilisations have rocked Gujarat.The Patidars under Hardik Patel demanded reservations. The Dalits under Jignesh Mevani rallied after the barbarism in Una. The kshatriyas under Alpesh Thakor picked up the issue of alcohol in society. The merchants of Surat took to the streets against GST and demonetisation.The remarkable thing was that none of these mobilisations, at the point when they happened, were politicised. The Congress had no role in them and in some it was deliberately kept away. I say this is remarkable because Gujarat is a two-party state.Any public expression of dissatisfaction or anger against the actions and policies of one party should in the natural course of things be led by the other. Why did this not happen?The Congress has a problem of brand  Mussalmanon ni party (The party for Muslims)  and it has a problem of competence. It doesnt have any organisation of the type that the BJP can access through the Sangh network. With a better ground game, meaning more effective mobilisation, it could have won this election, when there was a perfect storm of voters dissatisfied across so many themes. That it couldnt reflects on its long organisational decay in Gujarat.How much of a factor were the Patidars? A few facts may help in assessing this. First, Patidars are not a monolithic group. They are divided into two separate castes: Leuva  Sardar Patel, Praful Patel and my family come from this group; and Kadva (bitter)  Hardik and Anandiben come from this group.Then they are divided between those who are landed and those who have urbanised and gone to the professions and trade.The most important thing to consider is that the majority of ministers in all BJP cabinets has been comprised of Patels. Why should they vote against their own interests?Some of them no doubt did, but my guess is that majority of the Patels voted BJP and many of the disillusioned ones stayed away rather than vote for the Congress. Readers may not know that the vast majority of those convicted in the 2002 killings of Muslims are Patels. They are enthusiastic votaries of Hindutva (as those who will carefully listen to Hardiks speeches will know) and it is not easy for them to march against the party.What does the Congress ultimately stand for? This was difficult to say.One of the disappointing things about the manner of its campaigning was the tone. Nobody can have a problem with Rahul Gandhis visiting of temples. That is his right. But the partys response to the majoritarian and nakedly communal posture of the BJP was to not make reference to the bullying of Muslims.This may, in their opinion, have improved its chances on a few seats but it produced a campaign without a strong narrative.There is a narrative, or the opportunity to make one, that knits together inclusion of all Indians, laws like the Right to Information (RTI) and the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) and competence in managing the economy.Manmohan Singh pointed out that Modi will be unable to deliver the same rate of GDP growth that the UPA averaged in its decade in power.Singh delivered this despite navigating India through the worst phase of the global financial crisis (the worlds economy contracted in 2009). Modi has been unable to lift the rate despite the world galloping along. This is a fact. The development narrative has no more legs. 2019 will be a nasty, vulgar election.  