Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay
  The BJP victory in Gujarat has stymied the possibility of a major political campaign against PM Narendra Modi, which would have been launched had the party not secured a mandate for an unprecedented sixth time. Though BJPs seats have come down from 2012, its vote share has not eroded, signalling continuing support.Opinion polls suggested the gap between BJP and Congress narrowed before Modi embarked on his campaign blitzkrieg. Eventual reversal of this sentiment reiterated Modis personal charisma and vote-catching abilities. Despite Rahul Gandhi-led Congress on the path of a revival, the PM remains more adept at closing a campaign, even if it meant using tactics that may not have gone down well with adversaries and observers.The verdict from Gujarat further establishes the indispensability of Modi in the BJP. His was a lonesome figure that stood between defeat and victory. Modis popularity in Gujarat has been proved beyond doubt both in terms of style and content, however contentious it may be. He was eventually able to convince voters that he indeed was the political embodiment of Gujarat. Though this was a state election, it wasmarked by a complete absence of local leaders from both parties, demonstrating Modis hegemony within the party. Likewise for Gandhi, who chose this moment to make a transition to party presidency.While leaders of both parties would be happy to draw satisfaction by arguing the final tally could have been worse, supporters and cadre will find reasons for unhappiness.BJP workers would have liked the leadership to have acted earlier and not leave everything to Modi. The Prime Minister will also have to deliberate if state units should be handled differently. Congress workers too will rue a missed opportunity.There are lessons for both. The verdict, however, puts a pause in the story of BJPs continuous ascendancy that appeared so real barely 10 months ago, when it swept to power in Uttar Pradesh. A hurdle in the Modi juggernauts path in Gujarat is both bad and good news.It is troublesome because the victory has been possible only due to Modis titanic campaign. Decline in the number of seats is not worrisome beyond a point because recoverywill be easier here than elsewhere. The BJP leadership would be aware that anti-incumbent sentiment was largely due to poor handling and in response to various crises that emerged from 2015.However, Modi will derive satisfaction by somewhat limiting losses in rural areas and retaining urban bastions. Rural distress articulated through the campaign is a vital area to be addressed. Modi government will undoubtedly need to evaluate issues that almost cost it dearly. The Gujarat results go against the trend of decisive verdicts that have been the norm since 2014. This will make politics more competitive subject to Congress and Gandhi not allowing the momentum to slip. One of the major successes of the BJP campaign is the Congress, and Gandhi specifically, framing the boundaries of its own campaign within the Sangh Parivars template.It is for the Congress to conclude whether this worked to its benefit or otherwise. But post Gujarat, Congress will have to take a call on whether it should act as a B team of BJP. The BJP has shaped itself as an unceasing electoral machine. Even in the middle of the Gujarat polls, its leaders have been quietly preparing for the next round. While responsibilities have already been allocated for Meghalaya, Nagaland and Tripura, Karnataka is soon to be given specific attention. Gujarat has not given an emphatic victory but in his speech to party workers, he declared no deviation from policies he has zealously pursued.In Modis mind, the worst is over. How Gandhi and Congress respond will set up the field for 2019.  