NIDHI SHARMA
  NEW DELHI: Congress went down fighting in Gujarat, posting its best performance in the BJP-ruled state in decades. Riding on anti-incumbency against the ruling party which had been in power for 22 years, angst over farm distress, unemployment, expensive education and a caste-based rainbow alliance, Congress kept its entrenched adversary well below its declared target of Mission 150.  WHAT CONGRESS GOT RIGHT  Congress got down to work early. As it wrapped up Punjab elections in March, the party was already thinking about Gujarat. Rahul Gandhi deputed his team to make multiple visits to the state and gauge the ground situation. This helped it identify the key battleground seats and understand that the real challenge lay in urban seats.With the identification began another exercise at the grassroots under state leadership  building a network of committed workers at the booth level. This meticulous exercise helped the party swing hard-fought seats in BJP bastions such as Padra in Vadodara district, and Dhandhuka, Jamalpur-Khadiya and Bapunagar in Ahmedabad.Meticulous surveys were conducted to understand the pulse of the people. A survey had revealed that though Muslim men seemed inclined to vote for Congress in urban seats, women of the same family were favouring BJP because of the Modi governments stance on triple talaq in SC. Congress used this to step up its campaign through Mahila Congress to target Muslim women in urban seats.Angst among farmers over MSP, anger among traders over GST and expensive higher education were some issues the party worked assiduously on in the run-up to the polls. This helped Congress make a dent in Saurashtra. A soft Hindutva approach by Rahul Gandhi, a tight selection of candidates in phase-1, an iron grip over organisation under general secretary in charge Ashok Gehlot and a rainbow coalition carefully stitched saw Congress improve its tally and vote share. This, however, did not clinch it for Congress.  WHY IT FELL SHORT?  Had Congress fought phase-2 the way it had managed the first, there was no stopping it, was the broad verdict. If there was a strong sentiment against BJP, Congress could not position itself as a reliable choice to the electorate. The biggest problem was the lack of an organisational setup or a reliable regional satrap under whom the party could unite and take on BJPs might.Congress tried to make up for it by relying on its allies. However, in following coalition dharma, it gave too much to allies like Chhotubhai Vasava. Although Alpesh Thakor joined Congress, favouring his supporters in ticket distribution fuelled rebellions in several constituencies. Congress chances in north Gujarat, where the party had an edge in 2012, were marred by the presence of rebels on at least half the seats. The party had hoped that it would be able to capitalise on Hardik Patels Patidar base and Thakors popularity to swing seats in Saurashtra, central and south Gujarat. However, the alliances did not prove as rewarding as it had calculated.  