Sanam Mirchandani
  MUMBAI: The record premium in mid-cap share valuations over bluechips may widen further after Bharatiya Janata Partys victory in the Gujarat elections. Though there are concerns over frothy valuations, mid-cap shares may remain firm as domestic investors continue to look for winners in this segment. The S&P; BSE MidCap index ended at 17,104.40 on Monday, up 129.68 points or 0.8 per cent  its highest ever closing level. Intraday, the index hit a record high of 17,195.16 points. Page Industries led the gains on the midcap index with a gain of 8.6 per cent to Rs 24,528 followed by Jindal Steel and Power, Union Bank and Adani Enterprises, which gained between 3 per cent and 6 per cent.   The BSE Midcap Indexs trailing price to earnings (P/E) ratio  a widely watched valuation measure  on Mondays close stood at 51.75 times while the S&P; BSE Sensex was trading at a P/E of 24.75 times. The gap was 27 times. On December 11, the gap had touched a high of 27.71, the highest since 2010, data compiled by ETIG database showed. Usually, whenever large amount of domestic money comes into the market, funds adopt a bottom-up approach. In the past year, domestic mutual funds and insurance companies have been the main drivers of the market, which explains why midcaps are being more vigorously chased than large-caps, said Ajay Bodke, CEO and chief portfolio manager-PMS at Prabhudas Lilladher. It does look like that this win will lead to buoyancy in the market. In such circumstances, people will continue to assume higher risk and chase mid-cap names, added Bodke. The BSE MidCap index has gained 40.5 per cent in the last one year compared to the S&P; BSE Sensex which has gained 27.4 per cent during the same period. Echoing a similar view, Pankaj Pandey, head of research at ICICIdirect.com, said, The reason mid and small caps are being preferred is that they offer better growth even though the multiples look expensive. This valuation gap is going to persist as there is ample liquidity in the market. Pandey added that growth tapering off is the biggest risk to midcap stocks.  