DP Bhattacharya
BJP is back in the saddle but with reduced numbers in the assembly. It has won 99 seats, 16 less than 2012. But, given the perceived resentment, the party has reasons to cheer.While Brand Modi has almost single handedly delivered victory, what is alarming is the erosion that the brand has suffered with the spread of dissent across the state. Cyber space too had a glut of memes on the PM, something solely dedicated to Rahul Gandhi previously. As political analysts maintain, such humour is often laden with ominous signals.Any semblance of complacency will thus cost dearly as BJP fell way short of its war cry of 150 plus seats and has shrunk to a perilous low  the lowest in 22 years.Defeated but not decimated, the Patidar demand for reservation will only amplify over next few months before peaking ahead of 2019 general elections. For incumbent chief minister Vijay Rupani, having lost significant ground in Patidar citadel of Saurashtra, the road ahead will be fraught with pitfalls.The Patidars are all set to flex their financial muscle with Global Patidar Business summit in January 2018.On his part, Hardik Patel is categorical that he will enhance the tempo of the agitation in days to come. Our agitation will only grow over time, Hardik told ET.The new government will have to start repairing its image and work to retain and expand its flock. With a large number of Sangh affiliates feeling disenchanted and favouring Congress, the challenge will be to regain the trust and affection of the grassroots workers fast, if the party machinery wants to deliver a respectable win in 2019.For the prime minister, the general election will be a much bigger game with his home state being only a small part of it with 26 seats.PM Narendra Modis departure from Gujarat has left a vacuum in leadership in BJP. Anandiben Patel and Vijay Rupani, who successively replaced Modi as the chief minister, are both perceived as puppets of New Delhi and saw their stature diminish both within and outside the party.On its part, Congress banked on resentment and Hardik. The scheme of winning by-default took the party forward but left it short of power. Even Rahul Gandhi 2.0 could do only this much. However, now with more breathing time and the second booster of confidence after the Rajya Sabha election win, the party will now be poised to gain strength.For BJP, finding or nurturing a strong leadership at the state-level has now assumed greater urgency.  