K R Balasubramanyam
The man who did not want a second term in office (when he took over in 2013), and heads the only major Congress-ruled state in the country, is all set to lead its campaign to the 2018 assembly elections. KR Balasubramanyam caught up with him in the middle of his tour, at Toranagallu in Ballari on Tuesday.Excerpts:  Has the setback in Gujarat increased the pressure on you?  The Gujarat results will have no impact on the Congress in Karnataka. The issues in the two states are totally different. Gujarat had the same party as in the Centre. The PM as well as BJP national president hailed from that state. They had more advantages than we did. The BJP had no issue with funds and could misuse government machinery. Added to that, Modi made an emotional appeal ( to the people).  But Gujarat was a test case for Rahul Gandhi  In Gujarat, people have accepted Rahul Gandhis leadership. Our party fought elections after 18 MLAs, including the leader of the Opposition, deserted us. That was a big setback. Still, we have won 79 seats, and more than last time, under Rahuls leadership. This is not a small achievement. It was indeed a very good performance. In Karnataka too, Rahul will campaign extensively.  But is Rahul experienced-enough to take on Modi?  What experience did Modi have when he straightaway became the CM of Gujarat and then the Prime Minister? One gains experience if one gets the opportunity. Rahul is a three-time MP, and knows India very well. He comes with his own family background. That way, Rahul has got more exposure than his father, the late Rajiv Gandhi.  Modi-wave cost Congress a lot in Karnataka, in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Do you sense a similar wave now?  I dont say Modi wave was not there then, but it was limited to a few pockets. That is not so now. None of the Modi or (Amit) Shah magic will work in Karnataka.  In Himachal Pradesh, Congress lost power because of anti-incumbency...  I am currently on a tour launching development works. The number of people attending is more than I had expected. That shows our governments programmes have impacted them positively. That has convinced me that there is no such thing as anti-incumbency in Karnataka.  If your party returns to power, that obviously means endorsement of your leadership. Will you stake claim for a second term?  The high command wants the party to go to polls under my leadership. They have written to KPCC, as well. Then there is this question of whether people accept my leadership. The sense I am clearly getting is that people will accept both my work and my leadership. In the by-polls that were held since we came to power, we have won most of the seats. That shows that people have accepted my leadership and my governments work.  How many seats do you hope to win?  I dont want to mention a figure. We got 121 last time. I am confident of winning more than last time. We will get a comfortable majority.  BJP leader BS Yeddyurappa is also on a whirlwind tour of the state...  But BJPs parivarthana yatra (transformation tour) has failed. At many places, the dissidence within the party has exploded. There is still confusion over BJP and KJP factions. Internal revolt is weakening the BJP. At Aurad, there were rival meetings at two places. People are not ready to accept Yeddyurappas leadership because of the corruption and misgovernance Karnataka witnessed under his watch. (The Karnataka Janata Party was launched by Yediyurappa, after he quit the BJP, in 2012. KJP won 8 seats in the 2013 assembly polls and restricted the BJP to 40 seats. It merged with BJP when Yediyurappa returned to it before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections).  Sometime ago, you spoke about political retirement...  I had indeed thought about retiring after seeing the way electoral politics has decayed and the lack of civility among politicians. But I decided to stay on after seeing the way BJP leaders are behaving. And also because the high-command has favoured my leadership, I have decided to contest again. This time, mostly from the Chamundeshwari seat in Mysuru.  JD(S) has said they will make a minority or a Dalit person the deputy CM if voted to power...  Why Dy CM? Why not CM? If they have so much concern for Dalits and minorities, let them make one of them the CM. JD(S) is talking of making a Dalit or minority member the deputy CM because they know they will not come to power.  What is your governments scorecard on investments?  After we came to power, Karnataka is in the No.1 position in attracting investments. Notwithstanding their claims such as Make in India, Gujarat does not get even half of the investments that we get. The law and order in Karnataka is good, but BJP is doing its best to stoke tension in coastal areas, Shivamogga, Belgaum and Mysuru, just to polarise. Member of Parliament Prathap Simha deliberately creates tension in Hunsur for no reason. Did we ask anyone not to celebrate Hanuma Jayanthi? We do celebrate Ramanavami and Hanuma Jayanthi. Are we not Hindus? But it should not disturb others. One should celebrate as per their religious traditions without disturbing others. Look at Union Minister Ananthkumar Hegde he uses such language against me. Actually, his use of language (against me) amounts to a serious criminal offence.  Image 2