Rakesh Mohan Chaturvedi
  NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned emotional and held back his tears thrice while addressing BJP MPs at the first weekly parliamentary party meeting after BJPs sixth consecutive win in Gujarat assembly elections after a close contest.The prime minister and BJP president Amit Shah spoke to party members of both houses of Parliament on Wednesday. Speaking after Shah, Modis eyes welled up first when he hailed the partys sixth consecutive win in Gujarat since 1995.Modi lost his voice again when he mentioned the contribution made by Gujarat leaders of 1980s and 90s such as Makarand Desai who are no more but had worked selflessly to give roots to the BJP in the state.The third time Modi could not control his emotions was when he invoked former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and his compliments to him more than two decades back.The prime minister said after the 1991 Lok Sabha elections when Vajpayee met the Gujarat BJP unit he was standing at the end of the queue in a corner. Vajpayee walked up to him and patted his back, saying you have helped us get 20 Lok Sabha seats out of 26 in Gujarat and this is unprecedented. He also told Modi that there was a time when BJP would get only two seats from the entire country in the general elections, an MP told ET.The MP added that Modi got emotional saying had Vajpayee not been unwell he would have been delighted to learn that BJP has wrested Gujarat for the record sixth time.The prime minister devoted the rest of his speech to underlining the need for BJP MPs and members to shun a laidback attitude and strive hard to accomplish their goals.He emphasised the significance of hard work in achieving set targets and exhorted the MPs to work relentlessly. Citing his own example, the prime minister said since his return from the Gujarat campaign on December 12, he has been to Tripura, Mizoram, Assam, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu on official work. He asked MPs to travel more and be involved in public service untiringly.Earlier, Shah effusively praised Modi for ensuring the victory of the party in Gujarat and recalled how the prime minister was deeply involved in chalking out the campaign strategy. He (Modi) would call even at 2 am and ask for feedback on the campaign, Shah said, according to a party MP who attended the meeting. He would give his suggestions on what should be done and how. The prime minister would call back again at 8 am to discuss the strategy, the MP said, quoting Shah.BJP had faced a tough electoral challenge in Gujarat from Congress and three young local leaders  Hardik Patel, Alpesh Thakor and Jignesh Mevani. Teething problems related to the goods and services tax (GST) implementation and 22 years of natural anti-incumbency were also weighing against BJP.Towards the end of the campaign, BJP banked heavily on Modi to cross the halfway mark. The prime minister played the son of the soil card, raised the Ayodhya temple issue after Congress leader Kapil Sibals faux pas, and referred to the neech remark of Congress leader Mani Shankar Aiyar to reach out to the voters.BJP managed to get 99 seats, seven more than the halfway mark of 92 in the 182-member Gujarat Assembly.The prime ministers eyes have welled up during public speeches in the past too. The most famous instance caught on camera was when he spoke to BJP parliamentary party for the first time after the impressive Lok Sabha poll victory in 2014. He had tears in his eyes when he mentioned L K Advanis words that the party is indebted to him for the historic win.  