Prerna Katiyar
Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti convenor Hardik Patel talks toPrerna Katiyarabout the Gujarat elections  How do you see the Gujarat election results?  Gujarat has become aware to a large extent and will awaken more in time to come. This is more important than winning or losing. After 22 years, the Opposition Congress that was weak has been strengthened because of my hard work. I feel proud of it.  Was your mission more about hurting BJP?  Yes! The BJP had aimed for 150 seats but got out nervously at 99. The match was fixed. Where is BJPs arrogance now? Anyone who loses nervously at 99 cant perform well in future.  Why has BJP done well despite your allegations it failed to provide jobs and education for the youth?  There has been EVM tampering. I can vouch for that. BJP knew it would not secure a majority. They stopped the tampering at 99 to avoid suspicion.  On what basis do you make this allegation?  Look at the results. They speak for themselves. The BJP has won in areas where they had no entry, no base  be it Surat city, Ahmedabad, Mehsana  places where maximum atrocities were meted out to Patidars. They could do this only via EVM scam.  What do you plan to do about it?  We have already readied our papers and will be moving court soon.  In Saurashtra, BJP won 23 seats and you had said if it wins more than 10, you will end the quota stir  In villages they were wiped out. Not just in Saurashtra rural seats, the Congress outdid the BJP in most rural areas. In 2012, when the BJP won, the whole Gujarat was happy. This time, only two men were making merry. The rest of Gujarat is helpless. No one in Gujarat is happy with this kind of victory. This is not their victory but a scam.  How many seats did you estimate for the Congress and BJP to win?  Between 100 and 102 seats for the Congress. Deliberate efforts were made to thwart the Congress chances who were on a strong wicket. BJP would have won 78-81 seats if it was a fair poll.  Did NCP and BSP presence hit the Congress, especially in seats where Congress lost by a thin margin?  I agree that the two parties chipped away Congress vote share. There were some 20 seats where the Congress lost by 200, 500, 1,000, 2,000 and 2,500 votes. We could have got 10-15 seats more, easily. The BJP, like in every assembly polls, makes the BSP contest in Gujarat to weaken the Congress.  What about the NCP? Did you not meet NCP leader Praful Patel before the polls?  I met him but it did not work out.  Why was there no attempt to woo Muslims?Narendra Modi has worked to threaten the community in the name of Hindu-Muslim, Mandir-Masjid issues. Every party ought to take all communities together. Only such a party can really claim of real development for all.  How do you see attacks on Rahul for his temple visits?  It is very sad. They are not getting the Ram Mandir built and when Rahul visits a temple they have a problem.  What is your position on the Ayodhya dispute?  Both mandir and masjid should be made at the same place, next to each other. This will serve as a symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity for the whole country.  How do you rate Rahul as a politician?  He is improving. He has matured with good understanding of issues that each state faces. He now listens patiently to others and is keen on learning. He is in the process of becoming a mass leader.  Even though you claim you are together, Alpesh Thakor has opposed quotas for OBCs?  We will fight together. We are together. He is with us. He has said such things in the past but no more. All those talks are history now.  You think the sex tapes made any difference?  They were unsuccessful. I have no issue with their crude tactics. The public too is very mature now. Had the movement stopped because of mudslinging and defamation, India would not have achieved Independence  But why did BJP win more than half the 39 Pateldominated seats?  The Congress that had only 8 Patel-dominated seats in 2012 and it improved its tally to 19. BJP had 41 such seats in 2012 but only 27 now. So its numbers have come down.  Who was instrumental for Congress improved performance?  It is the people who have given the verdict.  Will you continue support Congress or form your own party?  I am only 24. I havent made up my mind. I will take about two-and-a half years to decide on this.  What next after Gujarat polls?  I have a grand plan. I will start from January 1 in Gujarat, then move to MP, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, UP, Bihar and beyond  