Sruthi Radhakrishnan
 While most sitting Ministers in Gujarat retained their seats in the 2017 Assembly Elections, the polls in Himachal Pradesh saw Ministers routed by BJP candidates. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani won his Rajkot seat, a seat formerly occupied by Narendra Modi, by a margin of over 25,000 votes. Nitinbhai Patel, the Deputy CM and Finance and Urban Development Minister, is leading in Mahesana against Congress candidate Jivabhai Patel. Tourism and Tribal Welfare Minister Ganpat Vasava won from Mangrol (ST) beating the Congress candidate by over 40,000 votes. Bhupendrasinh Chudasama of the BJP, who is the Revenue and Education Minister is leading in Dholka by a margin of just 300 votes. Agriculture Minister Chiman Saparaiya lost his seat in Jamjaodhpur to the Congress' Chirag Kalariya. Atmaram Parmar, the Social Justice and Welfare Minister, too lost his seat in Gadhada to Congress candidate Pravin Maru. Water Supply Minister Babubhai Bokhiriya won in Porbandar against Congress' Arjun Modhvadiya by a margin of 2,000 votes. Jayesh Radadiya, the Food and Civil Supplies Minister, is leading in the Jetpur constituency, against Ravi Ambaliya of the Congress by a margin of over 25,000 votes. In Himachal Pradesh, Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh is leading in the Arki constituency with a slim margin. The Congress leader got just over 28,000 votes, against the BJP's Rattan Singh Pal who won over 23,000 votes. Health and Family Welfare Minister Kaul Singh Thakur lost his seat in Darang to the BJP candidate Jawahar Thakur by a margin of around 2,000 votes. Arun Kumar of the BJP is leading against G.S. Bali, the Food and Civil Supplies Minister. An independent, Baldev Thakur, has wrested the reins from Power Minister Sujan Singh Pathania in Fatehpur, pushing him to third position. The BJP candidate Kripal Singh Parmar is trailing in second place. Jia Lal, the BJP candidate from Bharmour is leading against Forest Minister Thakur Singh Bharmouri with 25,456 votes. Mukesh Agnihotri of the Congress, and also the Industry Minister is leading in Haroli with 28,202 votes to his name. The BJP has won in Dharamshala with its candidate Kishan Kapoor beating Urban Development Minister Sudhir Sharma. Excise Minister Prakash Chaudhary lost to Inder Singh of the BJP in the Balh constituency with by a margin of more than 10,000 votes.