Mahesh Langa
 On yet another day of vitriolic campaigning for the Assembly polls in Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday suggested that Pakistan was trying to influence the outcome of the elections. Mr. Modi accused his predecessor Dr. Manmohan Singh of meeting Pakistani officials at a secret meeting at Congress leader Mani Shankar Aiyars residence a day before the latters controversial remark, terming the Prime Minister neech [a lowly person]. There were media reports about a meeting at Mani Shankar Aiyars house in which Pakistans High Commissioner, Pakistans former Foreign Minister, Indias former Vice-President and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh were present, Mr. Modi said at an election rally at Palanpur in north Gujarat, scheduled to vote in the second phase on December 14. Terming the allegations of its senior leaders meeting with Pakistani officials as baseless, the Congress said Mr. Modis charges were prompted by his worry about the BJPs impending defeat in Gujarat. Holding the countrys topmost post, Modiji is making baseless allegations. Modiji is worried, dejected, angry. Such a statement has no truth or fact, and is based on lies. Such behaviour is unbecoming of a Prime Minister, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters in New Delhi. Mr. Surjewala said if Mr. Modi planned to contest the elections on Pakistan-related issues, then he should also tell the people of Gujarat why he trusted the Pakistani spy agency ISI and offered it entry to Pathankot Airforce Base... He also questioned the Prime Ministers unplanned Pakistan visit to attend the wedding of former prime minister Nawaz Sharifs granddaughter, soon after Pakistan-sponsored terrorist attacks at Gurdaspur and Udhampur. In his speech, Mr. Modi claimed that the meeting at Mr. Aiyars house continued for almost three hours and next day, Mr Aiyer called the Prime Minister neech. On one hand, Pakistan Armys former DG is interfering in Gujarats election, on the other, Pakistani people are holding a secret meeting at Mani Shankar Aiyars house and immediately after the meeting, people of Gujarat, backward communities, poor people and Modi were insulted. Dont you think such events raise doubts here, he said, suggesting that the Congress leaders statement came after his meeting with Pakistan envoy and others. Mr Modi also raised questions about the alleged appeal by former director general (DG) of the Pakistan Army Sardar Arshad Rafiq for making senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel the chief minister of Gujarat. Congress veteran Ahmed Patel, however, dismissed the PMs allegation and said he had PM abdicated the politics of development to win the Assembly polls in Gujarat. Its a foregone conclusion that he has abdicated the politics of development in both action and words. But does it befit the stature of the Prime Minister to rely on canards, rumours & lies just for an election? This is very sad, Mr Patel tweeted. In a concerted move, soon after the PMs election speech, BJP President Amit Shah told the media in Gandhinagar that the former vice-president Hamid Ansari had been present at the alleged meeting with Pakistani officials. Mr Shah also alleged that the opposition party did not inform the External Affairs Ministry of the meeting.