Special Correspondent
 Congress leader Capt. Amarinder Singh was sworn in as the Punjab Chief Minister on Thursday. At the Raj Bhavan, Governor V.P. Singh Badnore administered the oath of office and secrecy to Capt. Amarinder Singh and seven Cabinet Ministers and two Ministers of State. Senior Congress leaders, including the former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi, attended the ceremony. Speculation on Navjot Singh Sidhu becoming the Deputy Chief Minister ended after he was given the portfolio of local government, tourism and cultural Affairs. The CM will look after general administration, personnel, home affairs and justice and vigilance. Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra has been given health and family welfare, research and medical education and parliamentary Affairs. Manpreet Singh Badal will handle finance, planning and employment generation. Forests and welfare of SCs and BCs will be looked after by Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has been put in charge of rural development and panchayats and water supply and sanitation. Rana Gurjit Singh will handle irrigation and power. Charanjit Singh Channi has been allotted technical education and industrial training. Aruna Chaudhary, Minister of State (Independent Charge), has been assigned higher education and school education. Razia Sultana is the other Minister of State (Independent Charge), who will handle PWD (B&R), social security and development of women and children. Congress leader Capt. Amarinder Singh was sworn in as the Punjab Chief Minister on Thursday. At the Raj Bhavan, Governor V.P. Singh Badnore administered the oath of office and secrecy to Capt. Amarinder Singh and seven Cabinet Ministers and two Ministers of State. Senior Congress leaders, including the former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi, attended the ceremony. Speculation on Navjot Singh Sidhu becoming the Deputy Chief Minister ended after he was given the portfolio of local government, tourism and cultural Affairs. The CM will look after general administration, personnel, home affairs and justice and vigilance. Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra has been given health and family welfare, research and medical education and parliamentary Affairs. Manpreet Singh Badal will handle finance, planning and employment generation. Forests and welfare of SCs and BCs will be looked after by Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has been put in charge of rural development and panchayats and water supply and sanitation. Rana Gurjit Singh will handle irrigation and power. Charanjit Singh Channi has been allotted technical education and industrial training. Aruna Chaudhary, Minister of State (Independent Charge), has been assigned higher education and school education. Razia Sultana is the other Minister of State (Independent Charge), who will handle PWD (B&R), social security and development of women and children.