Prakash Kamat
 In a late evening development on Sunday, Goa Governor Mridula Sinha appointed Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar, leader of Bharatiya Janata legislative party as Chief Minister of Goa.In a communication released here late on Sunday by Raj Bhavan, the Governors letter said that Mr. Parrikar submitted evidence before her of support of 13 MLAs of Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP), three MLAs of MGP, three MLAs of Goa Forward and two independent MLAs, thus having a total strength of 21 MLAs in the House of 40. Further, in her letter, the Governor has asked Mr.Parrikar to prove his majority on the floor of the House in a legislative assembly session within 15 days of administration of oath of office and secrecy. Mr. Gadkari had earlier on Sunday said that Mr. Parrikar will resign as Defence Minister before he takes oath as Chief Minister. Earlier, in a fast paced political development, the Bharatiya Janata party(BJP) which had won 13 seats in the 40 member Goa legislative assembly, on Sunday outmanoeuvred the Congress with 17 MLAs, to submit a list of 21 MLAs to Goa Governor Mridula Sinha and staked claim to form the government. A delegation of BJP leaders led by Union Minister for Surface, Nitin Gadkari and Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar along with all the 21 MLAs, including eight supporting MLAs comprising three from MGP, three Goa forward Party(GFP) MLAs and two independents called on Governor at Raj Bhavan at 7.30 on Sunday evening. The letters submitted separately signed by all the eight said that they have decided to support the government provided it was formed under the leadership of Mr. Parrikar. Even as Parrikar-led delegation of BJP supporting MLAs knocked on the gates of Goa Raj Bhavan near here, newly-elected Congress MLAs as well as the partys top leadership, including AICC General Secretary Digvijaya Singh were holed up in a city hotel, deliberating for hours over finalisation of the partys legislative party leader.Earlier in the day, 13 BJP legislators rushed a resolution to president Amit Shah to relieve Mr. Parrikar from Central Cabinet responsibility as all of them want him to head the new government in Goa. On the GFP front, party president Prabhakar Timble who earlier told The Hindu that the decision to join BJP-led Ministry by the party legislative wing was taken by the leader of partys legislative wing,Vijay Sardesai was without his knowledge, later tendered his resignation to the party saying he did not want to embarrass anybody by recording reasons for the sudden decision. In its letter submitted to the Governor, Goa BJP president Vinay Tendulkar stated that Goa Pradesh BJP stakes its claim to form the government in the State.  Giving the background of political events leading to the letter, Mr. Tendulkars letter stated that the newly elected BJP legislative party met on Sunday morning at BJP headquarters in the city at 11.30 and by a resolution passed unanimously, authorised and requested the partys Central leadership to nominate the leader of Goa BJP legislative party.The letter said that simultaneously they also received a letter of support from MGP , Nationalist Congress Party and two Independent Members extending their support to form a government. The letter further said that the national president of the BJP communicated the decision conveying the name of Mr. Parrikar as the leader of the Goa BJP legislative party.Accordingly, the BJP stakes its claim to form the government in the State and request that appointment letter be issued appointing Mr. Parrikar as the Chief Minister of the State of Goa. The BJP has also claimed the support of NCP MLA from Benaulim Churchill Alemao, stating that his letter of support would be also be sent to the Governor soon.