Prakash Kamat
 The BJP in Goa on Sunday released its manifesto for the Assembly elections promising to make the State unemployment-free in the next five years if it came to power again. The manifesto released by Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, in the presence of Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik, BJP Goa unit president Vinay Tendulkar, and Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar said, For this, we propose to make Goa investor-friendly in industry, IT, tourism and agro-based sectors.  Lauding the BJP government for its huge infrastructure generation and tourism promotion with the support from a supportive BJP government at the Centre, Mr. Fadnavis urged the people of Goa to give a fresh mandate to the BJP without the need for it to depend on allies, who he said deserted the government at the last minute. His reference was to the MGP regional outfit which left the BJP-led alliance government to fight election with Shiv Sena and rebel RSS promoted Goa Suraksha Manch. The BJP manifesto inexplicably remains silent on the ousting of casions from river Mandovi, a promise which the BJP government faced flak for last five years for not doing despite promising ahead of 2012 assembly polls. Addressing a press conference after releasing the manifesto, Chief Minister Parsekar reiterated that employment remains a priority area to ensure that Goan youth are gainfully employed.  To achieve this objective, we propose to make Goa investor-friendly in industry, information technology, tourism and agro-based sectors to make State unemployment-free, said Mr. Parsekar.  The manifesto said non-polluting and employment generating industries such as pharmaceuticals, manufacturing of electronic goods and IT sector would be promoted.  On tourism front BJP promised to ensure a clean, green and garbage-free Goa. Departing from the beach tourism product, the manifesto said the government would encourage different types of tourism with focus on eco, event, medical, heritage, religious, adventure and village tourism.  ''Tourism sector will be given industry status and benefits. Facilities such as changing rooms and toilets will be provided at all tourist locations. All tourist locations will be well illuminated and have CCTV surveillance,'' it said focussing on tourist security and safety.  The party also assured to make Goa as preferred destination for mega events such as Defence Expo during non-peak season.  On infrastructure side, the BJP has promised to complete projects which are in progress and develop a world class convention and exhibition centre to attract national or international events.  On transportation front, the party has promised to have comprehensive mobility plan which includes special emphasis on intra-city bus transport, parking lots at bus stands and availability of self driven two and four wheelers on hire, inter-city mass rapid transport system with late hour transport facility and waterways and river navigation.  Linking of social welfare schemes to inflation index, reviewing of Chief Minister Rozgar Yojna and regulation of traditional occupations were among other promises in the manifesto. 