Prakash Kamat
 Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the BJP of giving Goa a government which is remote-controlled from Delhi, and promised that his party would provide a corruption-free government, which will focus on employment for youth. In his 20-minute speech at Bodgesdhwar grounds in Mapusa Mr. Gandhi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lied to Goans on employment and corruption during his public meeting last week. The BJP government in Goa is run from Delhi. It is remote controlled from Delhi. We will not give such a dictatorial government but a government which will take collective decisions by listening to people, said Mr. Gandhi. Failed to deliver BJP had promised 50,000 jobs in five years but it failed to deliver. So is the case with corruption. Goan beaches have remained dirty because of corruption in (beach cleaning) contracts, he said and added, We will give Goa a government with new faces and corruption free and employment generation will be our focus. Arriving in Goa after appearing before a magistrate in Bhiwandi in Thane in connection with the defamation case filed against him by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Mr Gandhi said Congress leaders in the courtroom were all smiles, while members of the RSS group who had filed the defamation case against him were glum and grumpy. Mr. Gandhi also said the problem with those who subscribe to the BJP and RSS ideology, including Prime Minister Modi, was that they believe they know everything and never ask others about their ideas and thoughts or listen to others. In Parliament, when there is discussion they say you do not understand this. They believe they know everything. And when the truth emerges to be something else, they get angry, Mr. Gandhi said and went on to accuse Prime Minister Modi of suffering from the same problem.  He does not listen Modi asks people to listen to his Mann ki baat. Has Modi told anyone to speak about their Mann ki Baat and offered to listen? he asked.  Modi came to Goa, made claims of changing Goa, of having wiped out corruption in Goa. Did Modiji ask anyone in Goa: Tell me what is in your heart. This is not Modiji or RSS or BJP style, but this is the Congress style, Mr. Gandhi said and promised to give a government in Goa, which will listen to people and take collective decisions.