Omar Rashid
  There is a flurry of activity at her posh 41 Gulistan Colony bungalow. From holding strategy meetings to entertaining courtesy calls by supporters and patrons, Rita Bahuguna Joshi, 67, is busy finalising the details of her campaign.  The equations are different this time in the Lucknow Cantonment constituency. The MLA defected from the Congress to the BJP in October. Is that a matter of concern, especially since the Samajwadi Party and the Congress are now allies? No, actually its better now. The Congress was a dismissed party in U.P. electoral politics, is her prompt reply. I worked very hard for the party [Congress], but people feel it is corrupt and does not have the numbers to form a government. They elected me as they had faith in my leadership. Also, the people are clever today, they can see through Akhileshs [Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadavs] attempts to shake off his anti-incumbency [disadvantage]. But acceptance from the BJP cadre has been hard to earn for the outsider  Ms. Joshi, the daughter of former Chief Minister H.N. Bahugana, has served as the State Congress president. An upset BJP youth leader, who was hoping to get the ticket from the constituency, is now planning to file the nomination as an Independent candidate. In 2012, Ms. Joshi defeated her nearest rival by nearly 22,000 votes. This time, she faces a high-profile debutant, also making Lucknow Cantonment one of those rare seats with women as front runners.  







 Four decades her junior, her opponent Aparna Yadav is the younger daughter-in-law of Mulayam Singh and wife of Mr. Akhileshs step-brother, Prateek Yadav. Though she has no political experience worth taking note of, Ms. Aparna is a social activist and trained singer and holds a Masters degree in International Affairs and Politics from Manchester University.  Personalised strategy Perhaps, Ms. Joshi recognises the threat from the Yadav family scion and the perils of being a defector. She has personalised her campaign strategy. A member of her team says her strategy will feature three elements: Her personality, her history of work in Cantonment and the promises that a BJP government at the Centre bring. She has a history she can talk about. Thats her USP. As Modi is man of action, she is a woman of action. Apart from the BJPs campaign song, Ms. Joshi has short-listed her own jingles. Ms. Joshi dismisses she is facing internal opposition. One or two [BJP] leaders in my constituency wanted the ticket. But nobody is doing an anti campaign. Nobody is in a position to transfer votes these days. If Ms. Joshi is battling possible non-cooperation, Ms. Yadavs candidature too is not short of controversy. She was the first SP candidate to be declared (Shivpal Yadav announced her name last March). But when the feud in the Yadav family broke out, her position looked dicey. Mr. Akhilesh is believed to have been opposed to her candidature and finalised it at the last moment only at the insistence of his sulking father. Despite all this, Ms. Yadav has been quicker of the block. She has been campaigning for the past eight months, increasing her presence and attending social events in the constituency. She is also said to have attained the blessings of Rajnath Singh, who is Lucknow MP and a fellow Thakur. Ms. Yadavs activism has come with some embarrassment for Mr. Akhilesh. She not only speaks admirably of Prime Minister Narendra Modi but also attended a function in Lucknow where he was chief guest and even posted a selfie with him during a wedding in Saifai. Not one to shy away from the limelight, she says her campaign would not only feature the SP governments works but also her achievements as a candidate. Even without becoming an MLA, I got 250 roads made in the constituency, got 57 submersible hand pumps installed, repaired 60 drains ... got 450 pensions added to the social service scheme for women. Its strange that the MLAs here are ignorant of the peoples problems. The seat does not have the facilities an urban constituency demands, says Ms. Yadav. Ms. Joshi also highlights her efforts. I got development projects worth Rs. 400 crore for my constituency. I have addressed long-pending problems. In one-to-one contact, I am stronger. I expect a bigger mandate... But what about the possible loss of Muslim vote as she now fights for the BJP? Muslims trust me. I may not get all the votes but you will be surprised. I cant see any community voting against me. Nobody will have a bad word against me. The best thing is, there is no anti-incumbency against me, Ms. Joshi says. The SP-Congress alliance will be put to test here. The SP has never won the seat  since 1980, the BJP has won it five times and the Congress thrice. The caste factor does not suit a traditional Muslim-Yadav combine. The constituency, known for neighbourhoods made up of people from the defence background, has fewer Yadavs and Muslims but plenty of Brahmins (Ms. Joshis caste). The BSP has fielded a Brahmin, Yogesh Dixit, but the women have stolen the limelight.