PTI
 Hitting back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his SCAM jibe, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that one who is in the wrong, sees scam in everything while ally and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said the acronym stood for save country from Amit Shah and Modi. Addressing a joint rally in Kanpur with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh, Mr Gandhi urged voters to ensure that the outcome of Bihar election is repeated, where BJP was trounced by a coalition led by Nitish Kumar. Whenever Modi is nervous, he starts giving labels PPE, ABC, DEF, GHY. Now this SCAM.... A person, who is in the wrong, sees scam everywhere because this is his reality, he said, adding that the Congress-Samajwadi alliance in the state had made Modi jittery. S infact stands for service, C for courage, A for ability and M for modesty, he said at the rally in government inter-collge ground here, giving his own coinage for the acronym. Attacking Mr. Modi over note ban, the Congress vice president said, Demonetisation has hurt the poor most. Do not raise these slogans (denouncing Modi) but vote for CongressSP alliance and ensure that Modi never utters the name of Uttar Pradesh again, like he forgot to say Bihar after the Assembly elections there. Mr. Gandhi said that Mr. Modi is afraid of the youths, who will give a befitting response to him in UP elections as he gave the slogan of Make in India, made promises, but provided no jobs. Mr. Akhilesh Yadav, who reached an hour ahead of Mr. Gandhi, also took on the Prime Minister for his yesterdays SCAM taunt, where Modi had asked people of Uttar Pradesh to rid the state of SCAM  S for Samajwadi (party), C for Congress, A for Akhilesh (Yadav) and M for Mayawati. The SP leader said, SCAM means save the country from Amit Shah and Mr. Modi But why has Modi included bua Mayawatis party as it was BJP which had thrice formed government with BSP and both of you have amiable ties. He alleged that the Modi government has given nothing to the people but false promises in its tenure while the Samajwadi Party had delivered in Uttar Pradesh.