Purusharth Aradhak
  BJP national president Amit Shah on Sunday trained his guns on Akhilesh Yadav and Rahul Gandhi as he campaigned for Pankaj Singh, son of Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh, in Noida. Alleging that one shahzada  [prince] had robbed the country and another had robbed Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Shah appealed to voters to not just ensure Mr. Pankaj Singhs victory but also vote to change the fortune of the State. Mr. Shah said Mr. Akhilesh tried to portray a clean image, but his fear of losing the elections had forced him to ally with the most corrupt political party on earth. While naming AgustaWestland, Adarsh, 2G, Commonwealth Games and coal scams, Mr. Shah said only the Congress could take credit for scams spanning from earth to space. You must be watching photos of Rahul baba  and Akhilesh together. If Akhilesh has done so much work and wants to paint a clean image, then what forced him to go for an alliance with the Congress? Akhilesh has admitted his failure before the polls as his insecurity forced his alliance. He has also accommodated tainted people and criminals in his party, Mr. Shah said. Debunking the Chief Ministers claims of corruption-free governance, the BJP president said, Noida has also witnessed an Akhilesh government scam in the cycle track. In the name of cosmetic development, Akhilesh tries to hide his governments corruption. Under PM Narendra Modis regime, the Centre develops one km of road for 18 crore, while Akhileshs government developed one km for 31 crore. I have not come to support Pankaj Singh. Noida is for sure the BJPs seat. I appeal to Noida residents to vote in huge numbers so that Pankaj Singhs victory margin becomes a history in Uttar Pradesh. Vote for a change of fortune of Uttar Pradesh as the BSP and the SP have looted the State, Mr. Shah said. While slamming Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi, Mr. Shah said, Rahul baba keeps asking what PM Modi has done in two-and-a-half years of governance. I, on behalf of PM Modi, reply to Rahul that first we have given a PM to the country, who speaks. Former PM Manmohan Singh only listened to Sonia Gandhi. Soldiers were losing their lives during the Congress regime, but in PM Modis regime, the Army replies with gola (bombs) against Pakistans goli (bullet) , Mr. Shah said.