Sandeep Phukan
 Election fever is yet to grip Vadodara in central Gujarat, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi was elected to the Lok Sabha with a record margin of 5.7 lakh in 2014. Polling here is in the second phase on December 14, and campaigning is yet to pick up. But the calm is misleading as the electoral battle in Vadodara reflects the larger contest in the State with the Congress trying to break into this BJP fort. For the BJP, it is a prestige battle for repeating its clean sweep of all 10 seats in the district in the 2012 Assembly elections. After Mr. Modi vacated his Lok Sabha seat preferring Varanasi, the partys nominee won with a handsome margin in the byelection. Dropping margin The margin of our defeat in every Assembly segment during the Lok Sabha polls was 50,000 or more. But this dropped to 15,000 in 2015, when the civic elections were held. We lost the seats, but our votes went up, says Ami Ravat, an urban planner who became a Congress municipal councillor two years ago. She is now a ticket hopeful for the Sayajiganj Assembly seat. Her husband, Narendra Ravat, a general secretary of the Congress in the State, too is a contender. Though he lost the Lok Sabha bypoll in Vadodara, he says the absence of Narendra Modi as Chief Minister has made a big difference now. The Congress in Gujarat has popularised a social media campaign, Vikas Gando Thayo Che (Development gone crazy), and is banking on the anger among voters who are now willing to ask questions to the BJP government. In Vadodara city, people agree that the Congress has registered a strong presence this time, but is still not a threat to the BJP. Yes, the Congresss central leadership is campaigning extensively in Gujarat. I have seen that people are going for Rahul Gandhis rally, but they have nothing to offer except their anti-BJP stance, Yogesh Bhai Patel, a six-time MLA, says. There is a drinking water problem. The Congress wont tell you what it will do but will simply criticise us, says Mr. Patel, who avoids giving a clear answer on the impact of the Patidar agitation. My sense is we are not affected here in central Gujarat; you please ask me questions related to Vadodara, he says. But barely 30 km out of the city, people are more forthcoming with their views. At Fartikui, a model village with a predominant Patel population that boasts a government school, a dispensary, a milk collection centre and filtration plant for drinking water, the mood is split down the middle. Village elders, mostly Patidars, sitting under a banyan tree at the main chowk (centre), say there is no water to irrigate the fields of cotton and tur dal. Prices of diesel and fertilizers are rising. Vegetables such as onions and tomatoes are out of reach of the common man. Earlier, they would blame the Congress government at the Centre. Now they cant do that, Mahindra Bhai Daya Bhai Patel, a farmer, says. Asked about the Patidar demand for reservation, he wonders, How can any party offer it if the Constitution doesnt allow it? This group says that while the Congress candidate Sidharth Patel (son of the former Chief Minister Chimanbhai Patel) is a local, his BJP rival, Shailesh Mehta, is an outsider and Brahmin. The story repeats itself in Dabhoi on the outskirts of Vadodara and in other constituencies in Vadodara district. Padra, Savli and Vaghoria are among the seats where the BJP is battling dissidence and open defiance against the partys official nominee. No, these are not serious issues, only internal differences. That will get sorted out on its own, Mr. Yogesh Patel says.