PTI
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday tore into Akhilesh Yadav government, alleging it was sheltering and nursing crime and corruption and asserted that this U.P. election was about ending the 14-year exile of growth in the State. Addressing Parivartan Sankalp Rally in Ghaziabad on the penultimate day of campaigning for the first phase of polls, Mr. Modi said Mr. Akhilesh has disappointed those who had high hopes of him and has destroyed the State in last five years. He also took a dig at Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance, saying, Samajwadi Party had stepped in a sinking boat. Is this poll about choosing a new government, or about electing a new CM? This election is about ending 14 years of exile of growth (vikas ka vanvas) in U.P. and replacing it with growth and prosperity, he said alluding to Ramayana. In his nearly 45-minute address, Mr. Modi, who represents Varanasi in Lok Sabha, attacked the Akhilesh-led government on several fronts, including law and order, even as he made promises of rectifying the wrongs committed by the State government. When Akhilesh came, we felt he is young and educated and will try to do some good. Par nirash kar dia, paanch saalo ke andar U.P. ka vinash kar diya (But he has disappointed us, destroyed U.P. in five years). They keep attacking me, and accuse that I have not kept promises. I tell you, I will give answer to the public in 2019, but Akhilesh government must answer to the people as it had ruled it for the last five years, Mr. Modi said. If you do not answer in Uttar Pradesh, how will you make it Uttam Pradesh? Mr. Modi asked. The Prime Minister also accused the SP government of sheltering crime and nursing goondas and sitting blindfold over corruption in the State. Today, women fear to venture out after dark in the State. Young girls are scared of going to schools, he noted. This evil has been sheltered by the ruling party leaders in the State. It is nursing the criminals. The law and order has failed as powerful people with protection of the ruling party are controlling police in their areas, Mr. Modi alleged. There is corruption in jobs, poor farmers and middle-class peoples lands have been snatched away. There are 40,000 complaints registered under the Arms Act, he noted. If BJP forms government in U.P., Mr. Modi said, I promise you, we will form a special task force to ensure that lands looted from farmers and middle-class people would be restored. We have also been asking for CAG audit of irregularities in GDA, but the U.P. governance has not agreed. Once we form a government in U.P., we will ensure that GDA and other development authorities are audited, he said. If you have courage and good intent, then you can improve law and order in U.P. It was the same government, the same staff, same offices and the same police personnel when Kalyan Singh, Rajnath Singh and other CMs from BJP ensured that criminals were in jail, Mr. Modi said. He said this election was not a contest among parties, but a battle of vikas over vinash (growth over destruction). The Prime Minister also took the occasion to hit out at the SP government over several plans of the Centre which have not been adequately implemented in Uttar Pradesh. We brought in a scheme whereby interviews wont be necessary for recruitment of Class III and IV employees. Only the computers will tell who all would be selected and all on basis of merit. We had asked all States to implement that plan, but the U.P. government has locked it in files, Mr. Modi said. He said as per the new policy, this year onward there would be no requirement of interview for Group D, C and B non-gazetted posts in Central government. The plan was brought to end corruption in recruitment process. But, this U.P. government is sitting blindfold over corruption, and therefore, if you wish to root out corruption, you must also root out this corrupt (SP) government, he said. On Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, Mr. Modi alleged, U.P. has contributed a very low 14% under this scheme compared to 50% figure in some other States. If we form the government, we will work for more welfare of farmers on this front... U.P. is the highest producer of wheat yet the State government buys only 3%, compared to neighbouring Haryana where the purchase is at 60%. It is because this SP government does not want to do justice to farmers, since it is hell bent on destroying the state, it is furthering favouritism and casteism and is interested in vote-bank politics, Mr. Modi claimed. The Prime Minister also made a veiled attack on Mayawati, saying a favourite government official of the BSP chief was now languishing in jail. Mr. Modi, who arrived at the venue around 2 p.m., in a special chopper, was greeted with loud cheers, as enthusiastic crowd chanted his name and left soon after his address. Union ministers Mahesh Sharma and Gen. (retd.) V.K. Singh, also Ghaziabad MP, earlier addressed the rally and attacked the SP government. The polling in the State will be done in seven phases between February 11 and March 8 and counting of ballots will take place on March 11. Ghaziabad Lok Sabha constituency has five Vidhan Sabha (Legislative Assembly) segments  Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Dhaulana. As part of the seat-sharing agreement, Congress will contest 105 seats and Samajwadi Party 298 seats, out of the 403 Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh.