PTI
 Taking a swipe at Narendra Modi for his raincoat in bathroom barb at Manmohan Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the Prime Minister was more interested in peeping into bathrooms of people. The Congress Vice President also said that the Prime Minister will get a jolt once the results of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections are out. Modi likes to read janampatri (horoscope), search Google and peep into the bathrooms of people...but he is a failure as a Prime Minister, he said at a joint press conference with Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav where the SP-Congress alliance released a 10-point Common Minimum Programme (CMP). He (Modi) can do this (peeping into bathrooms) in his free time, Mr. Gandhi said. His comments come against the backdrop of the Prime Ministers remarks in Parliament that one should learn the art of bathing with a raincoat on from Manmohan Singh as there was not a single taint on him despite so many scams having taken place during his regime. Mr. Modi had said in an election rally in Haridwar yesterday that BJP had a detailed dossier on the Congress leaders. Mein Congress ke logon se kehta hoon: jabaan sambhaal kar rakho, warna mere paas aapki poori janampatri padi hui hai (hold your tongue, I have your entire horoscope). Reacting to this comment, Mr. Gandhi on Saturday dared him saying, You are the Prime Minister for over past two years...You can take out the janmapatri of Congress and go ahead with it. To another comment of Modi that Rahul is the most joked about person on Google, the Congress Vice President hit back, saying, ...he likes to search Google and he can do so in his past time...but he has failed in his functions as PM...he will get a jolt from the results of these elections. (Actually) Modis policy is that of distraction...when he cannot give answers to issues like employment, security, demonetisation...he indulges in distraction and the whole country knows about it, Mr. Gandhi said. He said Mr. Modi had promised to provide two lakh jobs every year and last year only one lakh youths were provided jobs and this year with the unemployment going high, things are back to square one. Modi talks about security and terorism...the result of surgical strike has been that some 90 security personnel had to sacrifice their lives first time in seven years, he said. Speaking at the press conference, the UP Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said emotions and anger were not right as these were elections for growth and prosperity of the state. Anyones janmpatri is just a click away in this age of Internet, Mr. Akhilesh said, asking the PM and BJP not to mislead people and come forward and tell them as to what they have given to the state which has elected all prominent NDA leaders.