PTI
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Sunday that the Samajwadi Party government had failed in maintaining law and order in Uttar Pradesh, saying a goonda raj was prevailing in the State and the Supreme Court had to intervene to get a Minister booked in an alleged rape case. The SC had to intervene to get the FIR registered against Gayatri Prasad Prajapati. Goonda raj is prevailing all over U.P. and police stations have become Samajwadi Party offices, Mr. Modi said at an election rally here. With the Supreme Court breathing down its neck, the U.P. police on Saturday filed an FIR against the Minister in cases of alleged gang rape and attempt to rape a woman and her minor daughter. The glow has disappeared from Akhilesh Yadavs face, his voice has become feeble, he is afraid and looking for right words while talking to the media, Mr. Modi said, adding that the SP chief had accepted that he has lost the game. Why is the policing system so inefficient in U.P.? Why are complaints not registered? What work culture is it? The SP is least concerned about improving the law and order situation. I urge people to elect a government that will ensure the safety of people, the Prime Minister said, putting the SP government in the dock. Referring to Mr. Yadavs campaign rally for Mr. Prajapati, Mr. Modi wondered if the (Cong-SP) alliance was as holy as Gayatri, in an obvious allusion to the Ministers name. Mr. Modi termed the Samajwadi Partys alliance with the Congress an insult to socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia. The Prime Minister said development has been in exile for 10 years in Uttar Pradesh. Returning to his theme of being the adopted son of the State, Mr. Modi said, Krishna was born in Uttar Pradesh but made Gujarat his karma bhoomi (workplace). I was born in Gujarat but Uttar Pradesh has adopted me. It is a privilege for me. Highlighting the initiatives taken by his government, Mr. Modi said development of the State will get a significant boost if the BJP formed the government here and asked the people to vote for the BJP and ensure development on priority. On the Congress, he said he would like to laugh at their ideology as during 2014 polls, they promised the people that they would raise number of subsidised cylinders from 9 to 12. Over 1.15 crore people gave up their LPG subsidy on my request. My mother used to cook food using wood as fuel, I used to feel so bad about it. 1.45 crore poor people got LPG connection after we came to power, he said. You all were being looted in the past over LED bulbs. You were charged Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 for a bulb. After we came to power, we ensured that the poor get LED bulbs at a cheap price. Now you get them at Rs. 80 to Rs. 90, he said. Claiming that BJP worked on the principle of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas, Mr. Modi said, People come to you asking for votes on the basis of caste and religion but only BJP thinks about your development. It is the responsibility of a government to ensure that there is no discrimination. We are determined to do that. Why is it that for securing jobs, one has to bribe? This must end. Youth should get jobs on the basis of their merits, he said. Recalling Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, he said, Had the previous governments implemented his guidelines, fate of our country would have been different. Stressing that there should be no discrimination on the basis of caste and religion, Mr. Modi said, Sabka saath, sabka vikas is our mantra. Agar Ramzan mein bijli aati hai, to Diwali me bhi aani chahiye, bhedbhav nahi hona chahiye (If there is electricity during Ramzan, it must also be available during Diwali, there should be no discrimination), he said. The Prime Minister also said if there is a kabaristaan (graveyard), there should be a shamshaan (cremation ground) too.