PTI
  Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav, BSP supremo Mayawati and Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday casted their votes in the third phase of UP elections and claimed that their parties will form the next government. BSP supremo Mayawati, who cast her vote in Mall Avenue area, told repoters that her party is winning over 300 seats in the state and she is going to form the next government in UP. Going by the trends of first two phases, I can say that BSP will take lead in this phase also and remain number one in other phases too. We are going to form the next government on our own and we are winning over 300 seats, she said. Like Congress and BJP, I am not talking this without any base. The way in which people are attending my rallies, I can say I am going to form the next government. The people of state want change and are fed up with misrule and gundaraj of SP, Ms. Mayawati said. On BJP, she said the party had not fulfilled even half of its promises made in Lok Sabha polls and people are not going to give them any chance in UP. Home Minister Rajnath Singh, after casting his votes here, also claimed that BJP was getting the majority. I am sure that BJP is going to get absolute majority, Singh said while appealing to people to come out in large numbers for voting. In Saifai (Etawah), SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav too aired similar views for his party alliance after casting his vote. People of the state have made up their mind in favour of SP-Congress alliance. After the third phase half of the elections will be over. The way in which we took lead in first and second phase, the momentum will continue in later phases also, he told reporters. On chances of sabotage in the party, Mr. Akhilesh said, There are no chances of this as a large number of people are coming to vote. We will win more seats than we won in previous (2012) polls. On chances of Ms. Mayawatis BSP, he said, Her language and behaviour show that she is not getting good response.  On uncle Mr. Shivpal Yadav, Mr. Akhilesh said, I just want that all the SP candidates win.