Omar Rashid
 Taking a dig at former Chief Minister Mayawati over her opposition to demonetisation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at an election meeting at Orai in the Jalaun district of the backward region of Bundelkhand on Monday, The BSPs (Bahujan Samaj Party) meaning has changed. The Bahujan in it is restricted to Behenji ... the BSP has become the Behenji Sampatti Party. Sampatti means wealth in Hindi. Mr. Modi wondered why Ms. Mayawati was opposed to demonetisation. He further went on to ask why Opposition leaders had sought more time before the implementation of the decision, and questioned their motive in coming together against demonetisation. Those who accumulate wealth for themselves, can they do any good to you, Mr. Modi asked, referring to the bank deposits made by the BSP after November 8, when demonetisation was implemented. Answering Ms. Mayawatis accusations that the BJP wanted vendetta, and raking up her parties bank deposits during the polls, Mr. Modi said the BSP had made huge deposits in banks right after the demonetisation. Attacking his political opponents, Mr. Modi blamed the Samajwadi Party (SP), the BSP and the Congress for the backwardness and neglect of the region that is known for its poverty and drought. The SP, the BSP and the Congress  you have seen them and tested them. They could not even give you proper drinking water after 70 years. Wipe them out from the face of Bundelkhand, teach them a lesson for taking you granted, Mr. Modi urged voters. The PM asked the people of Bundelkhand to break free from the cycle of the SP and the BSP governments and elect his party. The BJP promises you a government that will hear the voice of Bundelkhand, Mr. Modi said. Referring to the illegal mining rampant in the region, Mr. Modi said his party would set up special squads to dismantle the trade. He said his party would, if voted to power, deploy technology and use satellites to check illegal mining. Explaining the importance of a BJP government in U.P., Mr. Modi said that for the overall development of resource-rich and mineral-rich Bundelkhand, the party needed to hold power in both Lucknow and Delhi. Bundelkhand needs a BJP engine in Lucknow, he said, promising to transform the impoverished region.