PTI
 Uttar Pradesh Minister and Samajwadi Party (SP) candidate Gayatri Prajapati, booked in a rape case, was conspicuous by his absence at an election rally of Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav in his constituency on Monday. On the directives of the Supreme Court, U.P. police has filed an FIR against the senior SP leader in connection with separate cases of gang-rape and attempt to rape another woman and her minor daughter. Opposition parties have made it a big issue with the BJP targeting Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over her poll campaign in Rae Bareli for the Congress-SP alliance, saying it was unfortunate that she was seeking votes for those accused of rape and murder. Amethi is the Gandhi family pocket borough and is represented by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi in the Lok Sabha, while neighbouring Rae Bareli is represented by party chief and Mr. Rahuls mother Sonia Gandhi in the Lower House of Parliament. Steering clear of the controversy, Mr. Akhilesh exuded confidence that the SP-Congress alliance would form the next government in Uttar Pradesh. Samajwadi people have the habit of cycling against the wind. Out of enthusiasm, the Samajwadis tend to leave the handle of the cycle (its poll symbol). But, with Congress holding the handle of the bicycle with its hand, the journey will be smooth, he said. Addressing an election rally at Gauriganj in Amethi district, Mr. Akhilesh during the course of his entire speech did not make any reference to his controversial Cabinet colleague, who was conspicuous by his absence. Urging voters to teach a lesson to the BJP, Mr. Akhilesh said, They (BJP) made you stand in long queues outside. Now time has come for you to once again stand in long queues and give a befitting reply to the BJP. He said the people of the country have not been able to understand Prime Minister Narendra Modis Mann ki Baat, referring to his radio address to the nation. Earlier, addressing a rally in Unchahar Assembly constituency in Rae Bareli district, Mr. Akhilesh accused the Prime Minister of spreading lies about discrimination in power supply during Ramzan and Diwali. Mr. Akhilesh also claimed that he ensured 24-hour power supply for Varanasi after a request to do so came from veteran BJP MLA Shyamdeo Roy Chowdhury. If he (Modi) claims himself to be son of Ganga Maiyya, then he should answer whether SP is giving 24-hour power supply to Varanasi or not, the SP national president said. During an election rally in Fatehpur on Sunday, Mr. Modi had accused the State government of adopting biased approached in all the works undertake by the State government. He had said if the State government is giving 24-hour power supply during Ramzan, the same provisions should be made during Diwali too.