PTI
 After dubbing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Mr. Negative Dalit Man, BSP chief Mayawati on Tuesday charged him and the BJP with trying to give a casteist and communal tinge to the poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh. In the past couple of days, BJP and its top leaders, including the PM, have been issuing wrong statements after assessing that the party has fared badly in the first three phases of polling, she said in a statement in Lucknow. Referring to Mr. Modis graveyard-cremation ground and Diwali-Eid comments, Ms. Mayawati said such a view is aimed at giving casteist and communal colour to polls. At a rally in Fatehpur on Sunday, the Prime Minister said each village needs to have a graveyard and a cremation ground and the people should get power on Eid as well as Diwali without discrimination. Ms. Mayawati said the Prime Minister should get cremation ground in each village in BJP-ruled States first and then talk about it in Uttar Pradesh. He (Mr. Modi) seems to be giving polls casteist and communal hue... before saying this, he should see whether every village in BJP-ruled States like Haryana and M.P. have the same facility, she said. Such kind of wrong statements prove that they have stooped to politics of lies, she said, adding the BJP has lowered the level of politics which is not good for democracy. PM says BJP does not indulge in caste and communal politics, but this is wrong, Ms. Mayawati said, also citing the Rohith Vemula case. She said the BJP has not given ticket to even a single Muslim candidate in U.P. which has some 18 to 20% population of the community. The BSP on the other hand has given representation to all castes and religions in ticket allocation without discrimination, unlike the BJP and Mr. Modi, she claimed. The BJP, and especially Mr. Modi, are frustrated and have stooped to petty politics, she said, adding this indicates they are far from coming to power. Stressing that her party is poised for a full majority in the elections, she said the BJP and the Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance are fighting for second and third spots.