Omar Rashid
 Potholes and open drains lead you to the village square in Sidhupur in Manikpur Assembly seat in Uttar Pradeshs Chitrakoot district. A group of Kurmi (dominant backward caste) men, young and old, have gathered after voting on Thursday in the fourth phase of the Assembly elections. The mood is calm and lazy but rural Uttar Pradesh is never shy of a discussion on development and caste. Did you not see the potholes when you came in? When monsoons arrive, our children stop going to school as the school bus cannot enter the village, says retired teacher Rajendra Singh. The Kurmis here are unhappy with the local BSP MLA Chandrabhan Patel, blaming him for neglecting the areas infrastructure. They say they have voted for the BJPs R. K. Patel, a former BSP minister. Both R.K and Chandrabhan are Kurmis. Chandrabhan belongs to our caste but he has not done anything for our village, says Munna Lal Patel, a farmer and ex-pradhan. In this part of the village, which has over a 1,000 voters, young Kurmis praise the Modi government for demonetisation while lambasting the SP and BSP for casteism. The debate seems to reflect a healthy democratic and political awareness. But less than a decade ago, elections here were determined by dictat  by firmans issued by Dadua, a notorious dacoit. A Kurmi by caste, Shiv Kumar Patel alias Dadua and his gang operated in the ravines along the U.P.-MP border for almost three decades. In that time, Dadua called the shots in parts of Bundelkhand, impacting elections in Chitrakoot, Banda, Fatehpur, Rae Bareli and Kaushambi. He was patronised by all political parties, especially the SP and BSP. However, his end came under Ms. Mayawatis regime in 2007, when the State STF gunned him down along with his associates in an encounter. During elections, Daduas gang was known to issue diktats on voting for a particular candidate. Veer Singh, Daduas son and present SP MLA from Chitrakoot, was elected to the zila panchayat unopposed as a result of the terror his father inspired. From the MP election down to the pradhan, he impacted all polling. Nobody would oppose him or file nomination against the candidate patronised by him, says Munna Lal. However, today things are different, the villagers say, and across the region, Dadua elicits nothing more than nostalgia. As Chitrakoot and Manikpur voted on February 23  both recorded little over 60% turnout  no poll firmans were reported. For villagers it seemed like a distant past when they were trapped between Dadua and the police. Back then it was common for villagers to be booked under Section 216 of the IPC  harbouring offender who has escaped from custody or whose apprehension has been ordered. We were trapped. If the police harassed us for harbouring dacoits, Daduas gang tormented us if we did not help them, recalls a Kurmi farmer. Though they remember the times with dread, hardly any Kurmi here has anything harsh to say about Dadua. He was a Raj Rishi. He never stole from the poor, and helped poor girls get married. He only challenged the thekedars (contractors) and the government. Also, he had no interest in womanising, said Munna Lal. However, in a section of the village, where the Jatavs and most backward castes live, Dadua still sends a shiver of dread, representing dominant caste oppression. He was not a good man. Anybody would dared to complain against him would be beaten up or even killed, says Bhondi, a Jatav labourer. For many of these Dalits, though Dadua is long gone, his caste brethren continue to be a source of oppression. The Dalits here fear that if the BJPs Kurmi candidate wins this seat they would face further oppression. They too have complaints against the BSPs candidate  electric poles are left without wires, hand pumps are not functional and roads in disrepair. Women have to walk a few miles to fetch clean water and as the local kotedar does not supply them their due share of ration of kerosene, residents are forced to use mustard oil for lamps. However, the Dalits here will still vote for the BSP because of their loyalty to Ms. Mayawati, alleged goondaism in the SP and their distrust of the BJP, which has increased after demonetisation. Ab kya karey (what do we do now)? Manikpur witnessed a four-way battle with the BSPs sitting MLA facing challenges from the BJP, the Congress Sampat Pal, a womens activist of the Gulabi Gang fame, which works for women empowerment, RLDs Dinesh Mishra, the brother of Banda BJP MP Bhairao Prasad Mishra and Daddu Prasad, a former BSP minister.