Omar Rashid
 Sipahs bright mustard fields appear completely in sync with the political mood of the village. Cutting past its dusty roads, the colour yellow becomes even more apparent  vivid yellow scarves, banners, flags and posters indicate the presence of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP).  The village, nestled in the Zahoorabad constituency in Ghazipur, less than 20 km from the banks of the Ganga, is in the heart of the Yadav-Muslim-Bhumihar belt of eastern Uttar Pradesh. However, the talking point here is not any social alliance but the political significance of the Rajbhars. The community is one of the 17 most backward castes that have been for long demanding inclusion in the Scheduled Caste category. At a crossing in Sipah, around a dozen Rajbhars have gathered, some of them tired after the days campaigning. There is no doubt about their political and electoral inclination  they are strongly behind Om Prakash Rajbhar, president of the SBSP, which draws its strength from the Rajbhars. Its about pride Om Prakash Rajbhar is making our presence felt. We are also getting the honour due to him. Before his movement, no party wasted a second on us, says young Rajesh Rajbhar, a small-time farmer, like many other people of his caste in Sipah. If Rajbhars lavish praise on Om Prakash Rajbhar for elevating the asmita (pride) of the community and popularising their icon Suheldev, they are also thankful to the Narendra Modi government for its outreach.  After coming to power, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has taken concerted steps to popularise Suheldev. If BJP chief Amit Shah unveiled a statue of Suheldev in Bahraich, the party installed his frame in its gallery at its headquarters in Lucknow. Last year, the BJP went against convention and started a new superfast train  the Suhaildev Express  named after the medieval warrior-king, a legend among Rajbhars. The triweekly service covers the breadth of Indias most populous State  from Ghazipur in Purvanchal to Anand Vihar in Delhi. The BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) have, over the years, aggressively tried to portray Suheldev as a Hindutva warrior who stopped the march of the Muslim invader Ghazi Mian, a nephew of Mahmud Ghaznavi, in Bahraich, and halted Islamisation of the region. In this village, too, Suheldev is hailed as a national hero who kept out invaders. Several respondents spoke with a communal undertone. Affinity for BJP The affinity of the Rajbhars towards the BJP also stems from that fact that the party is fighting the elections in an alliance with the SBSP. It is expected to further push the BJPs outreach among non-Yadav backward communities. As part of its deal with the BJP, the SBSP is fighting eight seats spread across eastern U.P.  Mau, Bansdih, Chaudauli, Zakania, Shahganj, Mehnagar, Ramkola and Zahoorabad in Ghazipur, where Om Prakash Rajbhar is himself contesting. However, the BJP hopes to gain across the belt as an understanding with the SBSP has earned it a commanding presence among the Rajbhars.  Om Prakash Rajbhar is himself travelling across the belt with Amit Shah to draw in his communitys people. Though estimated to be around 2% of the States population, the Rajbhars are concentrated is some districts of east U.P., having the potential to impact results. While Om Prakash has in the past claimed that his community is effective in no less than 70 seats, his aide Pattiram Rajbhar, says the Rajbhar vote is spread across 147 constituencies. In every constituency, there are 10,000 to 80,000 Rajbhars, says Pattiram, adding that the vote was being transferred to the BJP in full strength. In Zahoorabad, Om Prakash is battling against the Bahujan Samaj Partys (BSP) Kalicharan Rajbhar, former MLA and runner-up last time, and the Samajwadi Partys (SP) Mahendra Chauhan, a candidate from the Noniya backward caste. In Sipah, Om Prakash is the clear favourite among members of his community.  Whereas Sipah strongly backs its community leader, while travelling across Ballia, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur districts, substantial conversion of the Rajbhar vote towards the BJP could be found. In some areas, however, they appeared split between the SP and the BSP as well, especially if they fielded candidates from the community. Credibility question Moti Chand Rajbhar, an ally-turned-foe of Om Prakash, however, says the latter has lost credibility in his community due to his flip-flops and would not be able to ensure the full Rajbhar vote to the BJP. No intelligent Rajbhar likes him, says Moti Chand, who now works for the SP in Ballias Rasra seat. Om Prakash Rajbhar struck a deal with the BJP for his own greed. He has sold the communitys future for a few bucks.  He had merged his outfit, the Jai Suheldev Party, with Om Prakashs BSP to form the SBSP, but the two soon parted ways over differences.  In 2002, after leaving the Bahujan Samaj Party, Om Prakash Rajbhar, who has in the past claimed to be a descendant of Suheldev, formed the SBSP. In 2012, it contested 52 seats and secured over 4.7 lakh total votes [5.06% votes in the seats it fought] but failed to open its score. Mr. Rajbhar himself stood third from Zahoorabad, despite winning a decent 48,865 votes. Another issue that stirs the Rajbhar is the talk of Dalit status. The community is financially, socially and educationally among the most backward. 