PRESS TRUST OF INDIA
 An estimated 57.03% of the voters cast their ballots on Saturday in the sixth phase of the Uttar Pradesh elections covering 49 Assembly seats, including Mau, where gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari is in the fray. The polling was approximately 57.03% and passed off by and large peacefully, the office of the Chief Electoral Officer said here. The polling percentage has gone up from the 55.04% in the 2012 Assembly polls in these 49 seats. The percentage in the first phase of the current State polls was 64.22. It was 65.16 in the second phase, 61.16 in the third phase, 60.37 in the fourth phase and 57.37 in the fifth phase. Around 1.72 crore voters, including 94.6 lakh men and 77.84 lakh women, were eligible to vote in the latest phase. A total of 635 candidates, including 63 women, are in the fray. Besides Azamgarh, represented by SP founder Mulayam Singh in the Lok Sabha, the constituencies in focus included Gorakhpur of BJP leader Yogi Adityanath and Mau. Polling was held in the districts of Maharajganj, Kushinagar, Deoria, Azamgarh and Ballia. The Azamgarh Lok Sabha constituency has 10 Assembly seats, of which the SP had won nine in 2012. However, following the feud with his son and U.P. Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav, Mr. Mulayam Singh has not addressed a single meeting in his constituency during this election. The prestige of Union Minister Kalraj Mishra, who represents Deoria in the Lok Sabha, is also at stake in this phase. The BJP is contesting from 45 seats, while its ally Apna Dal is trying its luck in one seat in this phase. Another BJP partner, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, is contesting from three seats. While the BSP has fielded candidates in all 49 seats, the SP is contesting from 40 seats and the Congress from nine seats under an alliance. Prominent candidates in this phase include BSP rebel Swami Prasad Maurya from Padrauna (Kushinagar), former BJP state president Surya Pratap Shahi from Pathardeva (Deoria), Shyam Bahadur Yadav (SP), son of former Governor Ram Naresh Yadav from Fulpur Pawai (Azamgarh), and SP rebels Ambika Chowhdury and Narad Rai, who are contesting on the BSP ticket from Fefna (Ballia) and Ballia Sadar, respectively. While gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari is contesting from Mau, his son Abbas is in the fray from adjoining Ghosi constituency. A total of 17,926 polling booths and 10,820 polling centres have been set up in the sixth phase. With 23 candidates, Gorakhpur has the most number of aspirants while the Mohammadabad Gohna seat in Mau district has the fewest with just seven. The Central paramilitary forces assisted the local police in ensuring free and fair polls and carried out flag march in sensitive areas. The India-Nepal border at Maharajganj and Gorakhpur and in Bihar was sealed to prevent miscreants from sneaking in and escaping. Police patrolling was intensified along inter-district boundaries and barriers were erected on highways to keep an eye on movement of vehicles. Potential disruption from Maoists and the porous Nepal border were the two major challenges before the police in Maharajganj. The 84-km Indo-Nepal border was sealed by the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and only emergency vehicles were allowed to cross the border, District Electoral Officer Virendra Kumar Singh said. Cameras were installed on trade and transit points along the Nepal border to prevent illegal movement of people during polling. Mr. Singh said two such cameras had already been set up at Sonauli in Maharajganj district.