Amit Baruah
 Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh has addressed over 100 public meetings, largely in Uttar Pradesh, as the Assembly polls reach their last and final stretch. In Delhi to clear files, Mr. Singh took time out to speak to The Hindu at his 17 Akbar Road residence. Excerpts: Its easy, not difficult at all because BJP will not only get a majority but an absolute majority. We are getting tremendous support. According to me, its unexpected. I wasnt expecting this kind of support. We have fulfilled expectations and will match it with 2014 performance. Whether its the Prime Minister or the Central government, there has been no credibility loss. Nobody has put a question mark on the intentions of this government. Big decisions were taken and demonetisation was one of them. The Opposition was up in arms against demonetisation and they expected it will benefit them, but common people have supported us. For some time, people were troubled. You must have seen the television interviews of people standing in queues outside the ATMs, but they never questioned the intention of the Prime Minister or the government. Nobody put a question mark on it. I will tell you, during huge meetings, when I asked the public about their response to demonetisation during my public meetings, people raised their hands in support. No, no I didnt raise it. We raised the issue of notebandi among the public only when someone in the Opposition created a furore. It was not required. You must have seen the CSOs [Central Statistical Organisations] data; they have pegged the GDP growth at 7% and it projected a growth of 7.1%. First, there was an apprehension that GDP will come down, it didnt happen. I was reading the statement of World Bank CEO; she has also said the same thing. There could be a difference of opinion; its natural. I saw Mr. [P] Chidambarams statement; the Congress should oppose it. The main issues are good governance and development. The BJP has a proven track record of development and good governance. Had it not been so then BJP would have lost its credibility. No, its the strength of the government. The Congress used to be a national Opposition party, not any more. For a healthy democracy, there should be a strong Opposition. The Congress has lost its credibility among the masses. They have ruled for a long period and they couldnt fulfil the basic needs of people. Even today, the percentage of literacy in the Congress-ruled States is quite low, poverty has increased, and infrastructure like roads, electricity, water is not there. I dont think dynasty is a big issue, but it is true that members of one family keep replacing each other in the hierarchy. I believe that a politicians son should work for the party for at least 10 years, if not more, and then if he wants to come [into politics], he can. You cannot stop anyone. Me, then my son, after that his son, this is what dynasty politics is about. Its difficult to decide this. The BJP is contesting all seats. Some places its the Samajwadi Party, in around 10 seats some small parties are there. I think the BJP has moved towards absolute majority. I dont want to get into family politics; its their personal matter. I dont become happy if there is a rift in any family. I dont even want to know the reasons [behind the feud]. But it is also true that within two years of coming to power, the SP started losing its credibility. The expectations people had from it were not fulfilled. Bharat jaise desh ka temperament, log chahhte hain politician seasoned hona chahiye, mature hona chahiye, well experienced hona chahiye. (As far as I know of Indias temperament, people want a seasoned, mature and experienced chief minister). The BSP is not a challenge. The BSP and the SP-Congress are fighting a losing battle. The Prime Ministers statement has been misinterpreted. His purpose was to highlight the discrimination on the basis of caste, creed and religion. That is why we believe in sabka saath sabka vikaas. And if you think that our political ideology is cultural nationalism, then it is the culture of India as espoused by sages and saints; Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam, the whole world is a family. Development is obstructed when you discriminate on the basis of caste, creed and religion. In a diverse country like India, you have to take everyone along. Its a wrong perception; the Prime Minister is entirely secular. In Manipur, we have given ticket to several candidates, including Muslims and Christians. Actually, they would have decided this on the basis of winnability. We didnt deliberately not give the [party] ticket to Muslim candidates; Muslims are citizens of this country, so are Christians. We also look at winnability; we do consider social equations. If a person belonging to any caste doesnt win, then what is the point? I am not aware of the letter. I already have a responsibility; I should not speak on this as I am a member of the Central Parliamentary Board, which has to take the decision on the process to be adopted to elect the leader of the legislature party. The parliamentary board will decide this. Everything is done there [at the parliamentary board]. We have not projected any CM candidate; there are many leaders. I dont think so. You must have seen this in Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Maharashtra  we did not project anyone. There is no particular formula. It is natural that I am concerned. I have requested the Kerala CM several times to stop this violence and he should put an end to it. I have spoken to him in person as well. He has assured me that he will do his best. Whatever is there in the accord, let me assure you that it will not affect the territorial integrity of any State. We want to wipe out insurgency from the Northeast. Gurmehar should not have left, she should come back. There is no danger to her.