ET CONTRIBUTORS
By Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay  Voting in Himachal Pradesh is over, but the real contest begins now. For the next one month, PM Modi and his lieutenant Amit Shah will undoubtedly launch a blistering schedule in Gujarat, more hectic than seen so far.The thrust of this campaign is likely to be distinctly different from previous assembly polls held after Modi assumed office, including the just-concluded electoral run in the hill state.Gujarat is the first big and politically significant state where BJP is a defendant and not the challenger. In Punjab, though part of the ruling alliance, BJP was a junior ally and the defeat did not dent its credibility greatly. There is no such shield in Gujarat and Modi will face the upshot of voters grievances, if any.The verdict will be either a renewal of mandate or its rejection. The outcome will cast its shadow not just on forthcoming state polls before 2019 but also on the remaining part of this governments tenure. Awareness of this has already forced alteration in speeches and other campaign materials in Gujarat and this trend is likely to become more evident as polling nears. Yet, the focus is missing, shifting from issues of identity to developmental achievements and Centres policies.There is also a marked intensification of attacks on Congress and its leaders. Barring Goa where BJP was the incumbent, facing a questioning electorate, in other states Modi mainly targeted the incumbents credibility, underlining the local governments failure to provide basic amenities and ensure progress and development. He promised voters everywhere that if they voted for him, he would replicate Gujarat in their homeland. He cannot make such promises in his own state.In 2012, Modis campaign for his third term as chief minister was about attacking the UPA government for not providing a freehand in developing the state. This time it is all about convincing people that he and his governments, in the state and at the Centre, has done enough.In states like Uttar Pradesh, Modi gained further by arguing that while he pursued programmes for all sections of society, the incumbent perfected the art of kuch ka saath, kuch ka vikas, an allusion to the argument that other parties appeased minorities.Unlike elsewhere, Modi cannot run a negative campaign in Gujarat and no promise can be made of ending the vanvaas (banishment) of vikas (development) because Modi is his own benchmark.In Gujarat, development, already personified by a social-media campaign that gained ground, rests on the other foot and this is a challenge. The demonetisation anniversary passed with reiteration of positions by both sides. But more critical is whether last years success in giving a political spin to Modis most contentious decision, is sustained or not.It must be recalled that the prime minister, in efforts to break into a new and proletarian core constituency than BJPs traditional trader and middle-class base, propounded a cause-effect relationship between corruption and poverty. He positioned himself as a crusader against corruption and pro-poor by deduction. The Gujarat verdict will demonstrate if people still hold that view despite RBIs figures of 99% of the currency returning.Demonetisation did not witness protests last year because Modi projected the scheme as morally correct. A year later, this will be a tad difficult and a different line of argument is surely expected. There are other handicaps too: reviving memories of Congress misgovernance in the state will not work because almost half the voters have no memory of those years.The real challenge is to counter the growing perception that life under Modi as chief minister was better than with him as prime minister. Congress, in sharp contrast to 2012 when it conceded defeat even before the contest began, is attempting to forge a formidable social coalition on the foundation of what it senses is a nascent wave of disillusionment due to the negatives of the two economic decisions.Much talk has been on revival of KHAM formula, even Modi accused Rahul Gandhi of arousing casteist sentiments. Clearly, he senses that Congress is going beyond and attempting an untried KHAM+P, with the Patidars being the latest. Even without it, there is a task on hand and Modi may be tempted to turn more personal and sentimental than he has recently done to woo the Gujarati voter.  