Kapil Dave
  GANDHINAGAR/SURAT/VADODARA: Inspired by the political rise of chief minister Vijay Rupani, many former mayors in the state are set to throw their hat in the ring this time. Like CM Rupani, who was once the mayor of Rajkot, ex-mayors of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Junagadh too want the BJP ticket to fight the assembly poll and serve the people of Gujarat as an MLA or a minister. Even some serving civic body officials aspire to become a neta. While the incumbent Ahmedabad mayor, Gautam Shah, has requested the BJP to give the party ticket to fight from Naranpura or Ellisbridge seat, former Ahmedabad civic body chief Amit Shah wants to contest from Vejalpur, Naranpura or Elisbridge. Another ex-mayor Kanaji Thakor has demanded Danilimda or East Ahmedabad seat. The BJP has also got a request from former mayor Asit Vora for Maninagar seat. According to sources, others who want to contest the ensuing assembly polls on BJP ticket are Bhupendra Patel, former standing committee chairman and Auda chief, from Ghatlodia; and Pravin Patel, standing committee chairman, from Amraiwadi or Nikol. "I am ready to contest the assembly election if the party considers me for this responsibility," said Ahmedabad mayor Gautam Shah. Former Ahmedabad mayor and a Congress leader, Himmatsinh Patel, and the current leader of opposition in AMC, Dinesh Sharma, have sought Congress ticket from Bapunagar. Surat mayor Asmita Shiroya and former mayor Niranjan Janjmera have both sought tickets from the BJP to fight the elections. Shiroya wants to contest from the Karanj assembly constituency. "I have served to the best of my ability in the local body. Now, I want to contribute my bit as an MLA," said Shiroya. Another former mayor and the sitting MLA from Surat North, Ajay Chokshi, is likely to be given another chance from the same constituency. In Vadodara, the list of those who have held the mayor's post and are seeking a ticket is quite long. The prominent contenders include sitting mayor Bharat Dangar. Former mayors who are eyeing BJP tickets are state general secretary Shabdasharan Brahmbhatt from Akota, and Sunil Solanki who wants to contest from the Wadi-City (SC) seat. Others who may fancy their chances are Balu Shukla, who has also been a Lok Sabha member. If a woman candidate has to be chosen in place of sitting MLA Manisha Vakil, former women mayors Jyoti Pandya and Bharti Vyas may get the nod to contest the polls. Dangar said that mayors were persons who remained between people and were popular faces. "They attend several programmes and have a connect with various sections of the society. They are also well aware of the issues being faced by the city," he said, adding that this often made them the choice to contest polls. Rajkot mayor Jaimin Upadhyay, who is also one of the hopefuls, said, "I have not personally requested for a ticket but many workers have proposed my name. If my party gives me this responsibility, I will give my best." Former Rajkot mayor Uday Kangad and Dhansukh Bhanderi are also vying for BJP tickets. In Bhavnagar, mayor Nimuben Bambhaniya too wants to contest assembly election this time and has sought ticket from the BJP. Ex-mayor of Jamnagar, Ami Parikh, has also demanded ticket from the BJP.  