ET CONTRIBUTORS
  By Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay Since end-September, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi has been temple-hopping in Gujarat with alacrity after offering prayers at the Dwarkadhish Mandir. It marked the symbolic launch of his campaign that has got the peoples ears and riled his principal adversary. A year earlier, Gandhi had embarked on what turned out to be a disastrous election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, and visited Ayodhya. Twenty-eight years ago, his father, Rajiv Gandhi, began his unsuccessful pitch to retain power in 1989 from the twin city of Faizabad-Ayodhya. Rahul Gandhi affirmed he is a devotee of Lord Shiva  being among the first politicians to pray at the Kedarnath Temple after its restoration post-floods in 2013. Rajiv, on his part, had ended his speech with an invocation to establish Ram Rajya. Temple visits, clearly, do not guarantee success. But most people still visit them and politicians are no different. The Nehru-Gandhi dynasty publicly started engaging in religion during Indira Gandhis time. She went against Jawaharlal Nehrus belief, who, instead, deified the temples of modern India. Indira did not initially mix religion with politics. She began visiting temples on election tours in the late 1970s. During her comeback campaign in 1979-80, she took along Sonia Gandhi to Ambaji Temple in Patan, Gujarat, which Rahul Gandhi has now visited. Rahul is no first-time visitor to temples during polls. He has even prayed at one in 2004 before filing his nomination from Amethi, UP. Despite his past display of religiosity, the irked BJP insists that all this is chunavi karma (election work), not swabhavik dharma (ordinary duty) for Gandhi. The problem lies elsewhere: of Gandhi not sticking to the past template of shrine visits despite it being a crude way of affirming secularism. Last year in UP, besides temples, he also visited mosques, dargahs and a church. Paying obeisance only at Gujarats Hindu temples for electoral purposes has evidently become swabhavik karma (ordinary work) and chunavi dharma (electoral duty) for the Congress. And the BJP is harried at being paid back in the same coin.Temple Template   One major challenge for the Congress when campaign momentum started picking up in Gujarat was to shed its pro-minority party image. Staying away from mosques and dargahs and not raising the concerns specifically of Muslims is a strategy to shed this perception. If Gandhi eventually succumbs to pressure and balances his temple visits, the BJP will get into full told-you-so mode. This is the first Gujarat elections when Muslims  9.67% of the states population  are completely absent, something that (ironically?) is considered good for the community. Muslims have surfaced in conversations only when controversy has erupted over houses being allegedly marked for easy identification. Viewing the communitys disappearance from the electoral discourse as a welcome development, of course, can point to an a fundamental flaw in the polity. The Gujarat election is being held at a very poignant moment. More than half of Gujarat will vote just three days after the 25th anniversary of the demolition of the Babri Masjid. Undeniably, the Ram Temple agitation, the demolition being its climax, remains the single-largest post-Independence mass-mobilisation campaign, and is the principal reason for the BJPs ascent. In the course of the agitation in the late 1980s-early 1990s, the temple was viewed as an end in itself. But as Lal Krishna Advani elucidated after the demolition, the movement was never for just a temple, but was a symbol to articulate and publicise an alternate idea of nationalism from what existed since Independence. According to the previous imagination, Indias religious diversity was its strength, not its weakness. The countrys cultural pluralism made the nation more vibrant. The presence of religious minorities living with adequate constitutional and political safeguards in a subcontinent where India was hedged between nations either persecuting minorities or rendering them irrelevant, was a matter of immense pride and satisfaction. But at some point, everything began fracturing, and the Ayodhya agitation played a significant role in this. Project Hindutva is now more legitimate compared to the pre-Babri demolition era. Ironically, the party that mishandled the issue the most, is also the one that bore the harshest brunt in the 2014 elections. On the path of its revival, the Congress appears to have quietly altered a few of its recurring practises and core beliefs, even if this entails ignoring a community with which it has had a mutually beneficial relationship. The unfortunate part of adopting this strategy is that it finds many takers, especially among the BJPs critics.Muslim Chance   The BJP has ideological reasons for forcing the Congress  and other parties  to be mindful of accusations of appeasement. But the Muslim leadership must share the blame too for the communitys marginalisation. The nationwide electoral sidelining of more than 14% of voters has deep security implications. The BJPs electoral comfort has been shaken in Gujarat due to sustained articulations of grievances by marginalised communities. But Muslims who have legitimate reasons for feeling alienated are also missing from this platform. It is time to contemplate ways to work over this divide. This must be civil societys agenda after the Gujarat verdict.  