ET CONTRIBUTORS
  By Neerja Chowdhury The controversial sex CD depicting 24-year-old Gujarat Patidar leader Hardik Patel has not only hotted up the election scene in Prime Minister Narendra Modis state, but its also a pointer to the traction that the three youth leaders  Hardik, Alpesh Thakor and Jignesh Mevani  have begun to have in poll-going Gujarat. All three have spoken about the ground-level sentiment that is changing against BJP, particularly in rural areas. The trio appears to have caught the imagination of their communities  Patidars, OBCs, Dalits, respectively. But they are also clear about the challenges they face: of paisa (money), sarkari (governmental) machinery and dar ki rajniti (politics of fear), with one more item added by Patel  the politics of dirt. These three Caste Cowboys have added an X-factor to the polls. Despite the contradictions that exist between them  like the Patidar vs OBC rivalry  they have so far batted in unison to overcome the bigger contradiction posed by BJP. They are also known to be good friends. With Patel becoming the face of the Patidar agitation for reservations for the Patel community, and Thakor owing his rise to his opposition to the Patidar reservations, this could have become a sticking point. But Patel skilfully avoids the trap. Nowhere does it say in the Constitution that reservations cannot exceed 50%. This is only stipulated by the Supreme Court. We now want constitutional reservations. Thakor, who represents the OBC view, is happy with an economic based reservation for the Patidars. Whatever be the outcome of the polls, the three leaders have managed to alter the political narrative in Gujarat. The BJP has never been on the backfoot as much as it is today, says Mevani. The Patels, Thakors and Dalits will vote aggressively against the party this time. Speaking of the attack mounted by BJP against them, Mevani says: BJP is saying that (Narendra) Modi and Amit Shah represent Ram and the three of us are HAJ (Hardik-Alpesh-Jignesh). This shows how frustrated they are. For four years and 10 months, they talk of development, and two months before elections, they use the communal plank. Mevani, who had launched the Una Dalit Atyachar Ladat Samiti after the flogging of Dalits in Una, is increasingly being seen as the voice of Dalits, who comprise 7% of Gujarats population. Though the Dalits used to vote for Congress, a chunk of them had moved to BJP of late. A significant aspect of the fight in Gujarat 2017 is the Youth pitch mounted by the three. It is also a pointer to their future politics: In 2019, there will be 300-million under-35 Indians, and it will be a fight between Modi and these 30 crore Indians, says Mevani. Thakor has already joined Congress, a party he had quit earlier. The Kshatriyas  who include the Kolis and Thakors, and comprise 20% of the population  come under the OBC category in Gujarat. They were part of KHAM  Kshatriyas, Harijans, Adivasis, Muslims  the Congresss winning formula in the 1980s. The party is hoping to widen this advantage this time by getting the support of a section of the disaffected Patidar community which forms 15-18% of Gujarats population. The Hardik-Alpesh-Jignesh phenomenon represents a wider, though subtle, shift taking place in Indias polity. There was a time when social activists, no matter how dedicated, were not favoured in political roles. Not anymore. One of the astute moves made by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi has been to reach out to the three Caste Cowboys. Irrespective of the electoral outcome, they are seen by many in Gujarat as symbols of a new political energy.  