DP Bhattacharya
  Amid growing voices of resistance over the first list of seventy candidates, which was announced by BJP on Friday, the party went on to release the second list of 36 candidates on Saturday evening, taking the total number of candidates announced so far to 106. The heavyweights figuring in this list include Pradipsinh Jadeja from Vatva in Ahmedabad, Babu Bokhiria from Porbandar and Nima Acharya from Bhuj. Mayur Bhatt, the son of former BJP heavyweight late Ashok Bhatt has been repeated from Khadia Jamalpur constituency in Ahmedabad. The new list of 36 has as many as 19 new faces including four women and cover mostly the constituencies of central Gujarat. Three sitting legislators including lone Sindhi candidate Nirmala Wadhwani have been dropped and rest of the candidates including those who lost in 2012 polls have been repeated. Earlier in the day, several supporters of senior BJP leader IK Jadeja gathered in BJP headquarters in the outskirts of Gandhinagar. Jadeja a strong Kshatriya leader from Wadwan, Dhrangadhra constituencies was dropped in the first list announced on Friday. BJP fielded Dhanji Patel a first timer from Wadhwan. Jadejas supporters also raised slogans against the party expressing their anger over the denial. While Dhanji Patel comes from the same Leuva sub-caste Patidar leader Hardik hails from, Jadeja maintained that the people of Dhrangadhra and workers of Wadhwan wanted him to be fielded and perhaps lost patience when an outsider has been fielded by the party in Wadhwan. Jadeja however reiterated that he is still very much in BJP and will continue being so. Meanwhile another senior leader Jethabhai Solanki sitting MLA of Kodinar has resigned from the party anticipating that he would be denied ticket this time. Several other local leaders from Vadodara and South Gujarat have also gone on war path after the first list forcing the National President to hold long meetings at BJP headquarters till late Friday night and Saturday morning to carry out damage control exercise.  