ET Online
 CLSA Managing Director Christopher Wood, Asia's top equity strategist and the author of popular Greed & Fear Report, has sounded a warning bell for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Wood says the odds of the BJP winning Gujarat elections remain high but it could win with fewer seats than in the 2012 elections. If the BJP loses, Wood adds, Gujarat would become Modi's Waterloo. Traders are upset over the complicated new tax Modi introduced in July. He has even tried to placate them by cutting tax rates. The Patidars, a dominant caste group that wants job quotas, have aligned with the Congress. So have a few other caste leaders such as Alpesh Thakur. If the BJP wins with fewer seats, it will be an opportunity for the opposition to mobilise for the next Lok Sabha elections. At present, Modi seems to have the next Lok Sabha elections already in his bag. Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi may have improved his communication, but he is still no match for Modi when it comes to connecting with the masses. Most opposition parties are in a state of disarray. The BJP's humongous victory in the Uttar Pradesh polls in March this year demoralised them. Once a disruptor, Arvind Kejriwal of Aam Aadmi Party has squandered his political capital on internal fights and opportunism. After a shocking loss in Punjab, his magic has faded. Right after the BJP's landslide victory in Uttar Pradesh, former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah had tweeted: "At this rate we might as well forget 2019 & start planning/hoping for 2024." Abdullah's tweet summed up the lesson from the election resultsif the magic of Modi was intact even though the government had completed half its term, it will sustain till the next Lok Sabha elections in 2019. Abdullah explained why Modi magic was still working: "In a nutshell, there is no leader today with a pan-India acceptability who can take on Modi & the BJP in 2019." But the BJP's loss of seats in Gujarat can change this situation. Once a leader few took seriously, Rahul no longer sounds reluctant and unsure. His campaign in Gujarat has been aggressive. If BJP's tally comes down, it will add to his confidence and boost his image as a challenger to Modi. This can also inspire local pressure groups in various states, if not regional parties, join hands with the Congress. The party is already supporting such groups in other states, for instance the Jats in Haryana and the Lingayats in Karnataka. If the BJP loses a significant part of its vote share due to the Patidar discontent, the Congress will use Gujarat as a template for the next Lok Sabha elections. Even a partially successful caste strategy in Gujarat will embolden the Congress to try it elsewhere too. So far, the Congress has had an utter disconnect with the masses. It's leader, Rahul, does not come across as a convincing opponent to Modi. But a Congress with a strategy and a confident leader can sure prove to be a difficult challenge to Modi in the Lok Sabha elections.  