Special Correspondent
 After considerable jostling and back-room drama, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress released their final lists of candidates on the last day of filing nomination papers for the second phase of Assembly polls in Gujarat. Following the announcement of candidates, both parties are facing a barrage of dissidence as aspirants who failed to get ticket filed nominations as Independent candidates. The ruling BJPs last list of 35 candidates was released on Monday morning, after party leaders reportedly informed candidates over phone late on Sunday night to file nomination papers. The party selected most of its sitting members in North Gujarat, barring a few exceptions as in Asarva, where a sitting member has been dropped, and Anand, where sitting MLA and Minister Rohit Patel has also been dropped. The ruling party has also relied on the old guard, and fielded nominees who had lost last time, like Jaynarayan Vyas from Sidhpur and Bharat Barot from Dariapur. Kaushik Patel, who lost in 2007, too has been fielded. It isvery unusual for the party to delay the announcement because of a number of factors. There was also no unanimity over multiple names, so most of the sitting members have been fielded, a senior leader involved in the candidate selection process told The Hindu. Normally, the BJP selects candidates and releases its list at least a day or two in advance before the last day of filing of nomination papers. The ruling party has fielded Bhupendra Patel from the Ghatlodia seat held by former Chief Minister Anandiben Patel, while Kaushik Patel has been made candidate from the Naranpura seat, which was earlier held by party president Amit Shah. In the Opposition party also, the list was delayed till Monday afternoon due to infighting, lack of consensus and intense lobbying by various factions in the party. The Congress has fielded Alpesh Thakor, a prominent OBC (Other Backward Class) face, who joined the Congress recently from Thakor-dominated Radhanpur in North Gujarat, and Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) member Kirit Patel from Patan. The Congress, which was supposed to repeat all sitting MLAs in the polls to reward their loyalty to the party as they remained with the Congress during the Rajya Sabha election, dropped several sitting members to accommodate new faces. Accordingly, from Lunavada, Hirabhai Patel, MLA, was replaced by the former MLA Paranjyadityasinh Parmar, son-in-law of senior Congress leader Digvijay Singh. The Congress has also left two seats  Waghodia and Morva Hadaf  for its alliance partner Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) led by senior tribal leader Chhotubhai Vasava, whose party secured five seats in an alliance with the Congress in tribal-nominated seats.