Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay
  When PM Modi launches his campaign blitzkrieg in Gujarat on Monday, he will undoubtedly embark on the most challenging political canvassing he has undertaken since assuming office. The feel on the ground amplifies what has been sensed for several weeks  that this routine poll, considered a cakewalk a few months ago, has assumed extraordinary importance. Evidence of the challenge BJP faces, realisation that significant sections of people are disgruntled and Modis conclusion that it is prudent to change tack are evident in a graphic doing the rounds on the partys social media networks. It shows a surprisingly subdued Modi with hands folded in a namaskar gesture into which his detractors may wish to read a rare meekness. But the Gujarati text accompanying the picture is indeed telling. When our homes are renovated dont we face inconvenience? Now, the entire nation is being renovated, so please bear with this and support BJP.The decision not to repeat images of Modi flailing arms and making promises is indicative of the understanding that Gujarat requires a healing touch after three years of social strife and below-par governance as compared to the Modi era. In the course of its multi-layered campaign, BJP, while sharply attacking Congress and Rahul Gandhi, also concedes that problems being faced by people are genuine and not just part of opposition vilification. Talking to a cross-section of leaders  from BJP and other parties  ordinary people and retired bureaucrats who once played key roles in formulating and steering the Gujarat model of development, it is evident that Modi is the only one with the capacity to prevent an embarrassing verdict. Because Modi would be well aware that there is a different parameter of honourable result for him, it is likely that no stone shall remain unturned while leveraging his special relationship with the people. The unprecedented last-ditch effort by Modi is necessary because of the slippages post-2014. It is also a result of BJPs inability to challenge social stratification in Hindu society in the years it was working for the omnipresence of the Hindutva template. Consequently, caste fissures have resurfaced and in the absence of Muslims as the visible other, all-encompassing Hindu unity  which played a significant role in BJP victories since 1995  is not visible. This will add to Modis workload when he enters the battlefield. In the changed situation, people are no longer scared to declare they will not vote for BJP. Even Modi supporters say their intention is to hand BJP a scare because leaders, especially local representatives, have to be brought down from their high horses. Arrogance, in local pronunciation ending with an emphatic see, is the common refrain. And thus the Modi visage with folded hands. Across the rural terrain, in different regions, grievances are common. People burdened with joblessness and agrarian crisis due to non-remunerative prices cross into semi-urban pockets and meet kinsmen with creases on faces similar to theirs, but pinning the blame on other issues: Demonetisation and GST rollout. These two have become metaphors of stagnation. Tea shops, evocatively used in 2014 by BJP, have now turned into places where people share worries. The only time they beat a retreat is when BJPs famed workers network takeover these kiosks for party-managed chai pe charcha. It is not that the tide has completely turned against the party for many may still vote BJP. But being critical of Modi is no longer a cardinal sin. His hypnotic effect has worn off because he hasnt been stationed here. This spell has to be cast again and within a fortnight. BJP has obviously stumbled by failing to sense straws in the wind since mid-2015. Clearly, Modis eyes and ears let him down. When the ground was turning marshy, barobar chhe was the constant refrain. Rising rural distress was followed by urban stagnation and the middle class found this indefensible. Incessant event-based politics cut little ice with people who wished to go beyond levels of development and affluence they reached with Modi as CM. Recognising trouble, Modi made pre-poll announcements, but for most it was too little and too late. It is paramount for BJP to retain its urban bastions which are being tested. Since Gujarat turned bipolar during the 1999 Lok Sabha poll, BJP never polled less than 46.5% votes it secured in the 2009 parliamentary election when it won 15 of the 26 seats. The challenge is to ensure that the erosion in BJP support is reversed so that the partys vote share doesnt dip significantly lower. BJP and Congress were separated by 9% in 2012 and if the gap narrows it can become anyones game. Modi wouldnt want this poll going to the wire. His speeches will reveal how he intends to prevent this from happening.  