NIDHI SHARMA
  NEW DELHI: Has the data from previous polling been cleared? Was the electronic voting machine (EVM) sealed in front of you? Check the code of the machine and the seal to ensure that the same machine sealed in front of you is used for polling. These are some of the dos and donts prepared by Congress as part of a training module for candidates and their polling agents in the runup to the Gujarat assembly elections. Wary of EVMs faltering in booths in the crucial elections, Congress has prepared this module for polling agents to educate them about the functioning of EVMs. The party has also given strict instructions to the state unit to ensure that the training programmes being conducted by the Election Commission are attended conscientiously. A senior Congress leader told ET: The Election Commission (EC) might maintain that EVMs cannot be hacked, but incidents of vote being cast to BJP when some other partys symbol is pressed are being reported from all across the country. So, we have prepared a module for polling agents, so they know what to look out for. This is standard practice for polling agents but with the new incidents we have flagged certain points that need to be watched out for. This is the first time that Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines are being used in all booths. This allows voters to verify their vote after registering it on EVMs and the paper trail allows for an audit of the election results by the EC in a select number of constituencies. Congress is unhappy over this move as well. There is no paper tallying in all booths. It is only in a few constituencies  about 10%. So it does not help in proving or disproving anything. We are being careful and training our own cadres, so they know what to watch out for, said a state unit leader. Around 70,182 VVPATs will be used in the Gujarat polls that will be held in two phases on December 9 and 14. Of these, 46,000 devices are brand new and are coming directly from Bengaluru-based Bharat Electronics Ltd and Hyderabadbased Electronics Corporation of India. The rest have been procured from 11 states including Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Haryana and Goa.  