Vasudha Venugopal
  RAPAR, KUTCH: The BJP candidate of Rapar in Kutch, Pankaj Mehta, also the sitting MLA started his campaign a year ago in his constituency with his "Sanskar Kumbh" yatra. As part of this ongoing campaign, he requests people in Rapar - a village that was significantly destroyed during the 2001 earthquake, to shun alcohol, smoking, non-vegetarian food and plastic among other things. He asked them specifically to rear only desi cows and take good care of them and not "give them injections." The families taking the pledge and abiding by it are awarded a framed picture of Bharatmata. One of the first to earn the tag was Mohitbhai Rathod, a dalit who said the reason he would vote for the BJP here was because the candidate was "interested in his well being." "From water to power, everything has started coming in the last two years. Why change what is going good," he said. Mehta's rival Santokben Aaretiya, a patidar from the Congress, however, has adopted the flavour the season - unemployment among the Patel youths. She has roped in a set of women who go from one house to another in this consituency asking them to support Congress for only "change can bring more water, and jobs." "We are all patidar women who want Hardik to succeed because we want our children to get jobs,not be dependent on business," said Amrutben Patel.  In pic: Gas and water have come but still it will be nice if we can get water everyday . In some villages that has happened too, not in ours, Mintiben Ahir.The Patidar businessmen of Kutch - all of them have businesses in Mumbai and Bardoli however say they are firmly with the BJP because the party lets businesses grow. "Congress has always believed in doling out only for the poor. It doesn't make anything easy for the businessman," said Deepak Patel, who has a herbal products factory here. Though there is a significant Patidar population in Kutch there is hardly an impact of Hardik Patel or his politics here. Kutch has been a stronghold of the BJP since 1990. The only time the party lost here was in 2002 when voters felt the earthquake relief wasn't taking place in the same way it had to but they soon came back to become loyal voters of the BJP. When the area voted fiercely for the Congress, it was only in 1962 that the party there lost. "For 13 elections Kutch voted for the Congress but in 1990 it turned towards the BJP, a little before the Babri demolition. After that with the combined agenda of hindutva and development, BJP has always retained most of the seats here," Kutch based writer and political analyst Kirti Khatri said.  In pic: Majnubhai Miyar's family in Bhuj has been rearing cows and buffaloes for several generations. He says by bringing water to Kutch Modi has changed their lives. A nomad from the Maldhaari community, he wants a house.The battle for the 54 Assembly seats in Saurashtra and Kutch regions will have a significant bearing on the final outcome in the Gujarat polls and the six seats of Kutch are important for the party to reach its target of 151 set by PM Narendra Modi who began his campaign in Gujarat in Lalan College in Bhuj on Monday. He addressed a rally at the same place where he has first hit out against the UPA on August 15, 2013. Kutch, the PM said had provided him the necessary training for the future and recalled that at a time posting to Kutch was seen as Kaala paani by government officials which changed after the earthquake. "Modi started the Rann Utsav, made the white desert attractive. That marketing was what he did for Gujarat too. In many ways his handling of Kutch after the tragedy established him as an able administrator," a BJP leader said. Historically, till about last few years, Kutch has never shown division of votes on the basis of caste, so much so that a Parsi candidate won from Mandvi in the seventies. "He was the only parsi there. Even his wife was a vaniya. But now things have changed," Kirtibhai said.  In pic: Rapar in Kutch is facing a triangular contrast this time which includes a heavyweight ex-minister from NCPIn places such as Anjar Congress and BJP both have Ahir candidates though voters feel at the end the party best equipped to solve their problems will be chosen. In Ratlam in Anjar famous for its large number of people involved in the transport business, a number of trucks stand queued here as the truck owners, mostly involved in the transport of ceramic tiles, timber, raw materials from Mundhra and Kandla port speak about why they want the prices to go down.  In pic: Mohit Rathod shows off his " bharatmata  parivar " tag awarded by BJP candidate Pankaj Mehta."The BJP candidate Vasan bhai Ahir is from our village. We have problems with business after the increase in diesel prices. Toll tax has also been significantly increased. We want these problems to be solved," said Vajibhai Ahir, a truck owner. The Ahir samaj that considers itself descendants of Lord Krishna here is influential here in reach and numbers. The BJP government's biggest feat here is that it got the Narmada water to the water from Narmada is being provided to 10,000 villages and 173 towns and cities in Saurashtra and Kutch regions. Kutch largely has businessmen, farmers and cattle breeders. Apart from Patidars, Rabaris, Maldharis, Bharwad, Garasia Jat,,Sonkars among others reside here. "It is true the coming of water changed a lot. I bought three buffaloes last year and we have increased our earnings by at least Rs 20,000 a month on most months. But electricity and housing is important too for us to get a stable life," said Majnubhai Miyar who rears both cows and buffaloes. A significant number of Muslim families in this region rear cows. PM Modi while speaking here on Monday had specifically made a mention of the community that Majnubhai comes from - the Maldharis who consist of both Hindus and Muslims and are basically nomadic tribes dependent on cattle rearing. The region also has a sizeable Muslim population. Four of the six seats  Abdasa, Anjar, Mandvi and the district headquarters Bhuj -- have a sizeable population of Muslim voters.The Congress has placed its senior leader Shaktisinh Gohil from Mandvi whose fight it is believed will be interesting. "But that said no Muslim candidate has ever won from Abdhasa. The politics of Kutch works in different ways. Even among Muslims the Raysipotras will vote for a party that the Halipotras won't vote for," Kirtibhai said. "Last time Nimaben arranged tour for all Muslims in this area to Ajmer. Sometimes such a gesture is enough to win hearts. If the candidate is rich and willing to spend, then party stops mattering," said Ithrish Mohammed, a welder in Bhuj.   