Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay
 Muslims of Gujarat are completely missing from the ongoing electoral discourse, despite being almost the every tenth person in the state and featuring prominently, albeit as the villanised other, in most recent polls. This absence or exclusion is not just in terms of a minuscule number of candidates from the community. No issue specifically concerning Muslims is being raised in any election speech or publicity material. Social segregation has become more evident  for instance, no one is even apologetic about their discomfort at having to take a seat adjacent to a Muslim in a cinema hall. Muslim localities in cities and towns are not on the must-visit list of any party. They account for 5.9% of the rural population compared to 14.75% in urban Gujarat. As against urban Gujarat, social and economic alienation of Muslims is comparatively less evident in rural areas. While the declining number of Muslim candidates has been a trend of recent years, issues affecting them are not being raised even by Congress. Congress has put up just six Muslim candidates  BJP none again while back in 1980 it nominated 17. Since then, the number declined but from 1998 it never entered double-digits. Ahmed Patel was the last Muslim member of Lok Sabha from the state in 1984 and since his election to Rajya Sabha, no Muslim candidate has been put up in elections for the Lower House. With Rahul Gandhi now staying away from mosques and dargahs, the party has firmly buried its politics of tokenism.This points to the success of the Sangh Parivars strategy. If Congress considers wooing Muslims  constituting 9.67% of the population  it runs the risk of losing the support of Hindus. Despite Congress no longer chanting the M word, interactions with Muslims reveal that an overwhelming majority of them are likely to vote for Congress candidates. Mention of Muslims invariably evokes images of 2002. Instead of being a monolith, they are a diverse lot with 87 sub-communities and spread across the state. Although Bharuch and Kutch are the only districts with Muslim population of more than 20%, Jamnagar, Ahmedabad, Junagadh, Anand, Surat, Kheda and Patan have more than 10% Muslims. Their say in elections has, however, gone down post-delimitation because older constituencies with proportionally higher Muslims were divided into different seats. Analysis of electoral data demonstrates they dont only vote for Muslim candidates. A CSDS survey in 2012 estimated BJP receiving 20% Muslim votes, mainly from the middle class. Along with other social groups whose continued support for BJP is being deliberated, backing of this group is not certain. Of the agitations since 2015 by Patidars, OBCs and Dalits, Muslims empathise more with the last group. Jignesh Mevanis choice of constituency is motivated by the 25% Muslim presence in Vadgam taluka. Muslim activists prefer to maintain low profile for fear, as one of them stated, of coming into the notice of intelligence agencies. Most fear talking to anyone outside their community or peer groups. The fear of a stranger is all-pervading among Muslims. This is the reason why non-sectarian and issue-based protests cannot be organised in Muslim localities as any form of activism can easily be portrayed as an anti-national activity. Compared to previous polls post-2002, Muslims are relatively more circumspect. Probably, they consider it prudent to quietly join those critical of BJP and let their fingers do the talking.  