DP Bhattacharya
  GANDHINAGAR: Gujarats youth trio  Hardik Patel, Alpesh Thakor and Jignesh Mevani  who shot to fame by burnishing their apolitical credentials have jumped on the political bandwagon at the first possible opportunity, upsetting the apple cart. The reasons why they discarded their apolitical moorings may be varied but it may not be advantageous to Congress, which had gained political capital by bagging the support of the Young Turks. Alpesh has been fielded by Congress from Radhanpur while Jignesh has filed his nomination as an independent from Vadgam, with tacit Congress backing. Before announcing his support for Congress, Hardik  who cant contest because he is underage  ensured that his supporters are fielded by the party. But the buck stops there. The transferable votes that either Hardik or Alpesh commanded are now being chipped away by BJP as both had initially projected themselves as leaders who stood for their community sans personal agenda. However, with both joining the fray, it has become easier for the ruling party to discredit them. Moreover, aggressive members of PAAS have arm-twisted Congress to accede to their demands of changing candidates in several seats  a fact which has not gone down well with Congress workers. Congress over-indulgence of PAAS has led to strong disaffection among some Congress workers who are in no mood to work for the Patidar candidates. Reliable sources from Surat told ET that while Patidar youths have put up a great show for PAAS favoured candidates, much to the chagrin of Congress workers, the ripple effect of this exercise has demoralised the Congress grassroots workers, who are turning complacent, leaving the electioneering exercise to PAAS. Jignesh Mevani, on his part, has seldom enjoyed mass support like Hardik and Alpesh. But he has hogged the limelight because of his communication skills. With less than 7% of Dalits scattered across the state, he had a long way to cover before emerging as a Dalit leader from Gujarat. However, with little or no transferable votes to his advantage, his filing of nomination from Vadgam has only angered Congress workers, who view him as an outsider to the constituency. This works in favour of BJP as Congress has not fielded any candidate against Mewani. Also, Congress grand induction of Alpesh Thakor has revived the memories of KHAM (Kshatriya Harijan Adivasi Muslim) formulation of 1980s by Madhavsinh Solanki, the father of incumbent Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki. The KHAM formulation had won Congress its biggest ever electoral win with 149 seats in 1985. But it also led to severe alienation of Patidars and other general category voters, keeping the party out of power in the state since then.  