Vasudha Venugopal
  AHMEDABAD/ RAJKOT: Ramesh Oza - Motabhai, a leading spiritual leader of Gujarat that the Ambani family revers, recently told his followers not to be afraid of GST as the disturbance is just a matter of a few months. When a train changes track, it slows down for a bit and also makes noise. Those times you have to say it is okay, we are with you because the man is after all working for us, he had said, and called for support for Prime Minister Narendra Modi in national interest who was only working for the betterment of his countrymen. Morari Bapu, another influential spiritual leader who has praised Modi several times, too, has asked his supporters to be alert when they make their choice in the elections for it is not often that a country gets a leader who looked at dharma (righteous conduct) while ruling. Oza and Bapu are among tens of influential spiritual leaders and sects in Gujarat  where the tradition of sampradaya (religious sects) is still popular  that enjoy tremendous influence on the lives of their followers.  In pic: Jalaram Bapa ashrams spread across the State have a faithful followingThough typically these organisations don't make political comments, even a subtle indication in any direction can have significant impact on their followers. By and large, Gujarati people have a religious mindset, BJP leader Vijay Chauthaiwale said, adding that "going by the impact of their appeals for giving up tobacco addiction and non-veg food and their work during relief work, the influence of the religious organisations om the Gujarati society is tremendous." And most these gurus and sects currently back BJP, particularly Modi. Political analyst Shirish Kashikar said the sampradaya tradition is infused with pride for Gujarati traditional knowledge systems and nationalism. It acts on the Gujarati's psyche in many ways because these old tried and tested systems not only provide an alternative lifestyle with customised tradition to families but give them a sense of community and also dictate in many ways the approach to various things in life, including people you must admire and choose as your leaders, he said.   In pic: Sadhvis at the Wadhwan Swaminarayan Ashram in Surendranagar have weekly sabhas for women to be good mothers, good wives The underlying factor in all of this is nationalism and pride over ones culture. Gujarat is truly a traditional society. It may not be conservative in urban areas, but it preserves its traditional knowledge systems. According to Kashikar, Gujaratis find it difficult to relate to the idea of secularism that the Congress identifies with nationally because of the influence of the sampradaya tradition. From Swadhyay Parivar to Gayatri Parivar to Bochasanwasi Shri Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha (BAPS) and other Swaminarayan sects and various kathvachaks (speakers on religion), these religious sects, like Hindu ideologues, while countering the influence of western culture, demand changes in the devotee's life that includes adopting certain beliefs and approach of life.MODIS RELATIONSHIP WITH SECTS   While Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has started visiting temples in the state, Modi has systematically cultivated a relationship with heads of most mutts and religious sects in the state. In 2014, immediately after BJP won the national elections, Modi was hailed as Bhagyavidhaata of Bharat (India's destiny maker) by saints at Pran Pratishtha Mahotsav in Ambaji, another sect with a significant following. Swami Nityaswarupdas, whose disciples believe they come from the original Swaminarayan Sampraday, had almost a year ago said, If we want this country to be safe, we have to strengthen Narendra Modi. A Krutisheel (volunteer) of the Gayatri Parivar, Roshni Rawal, remembered how a few years ago at a function of the Swadhyay Pariwar a sect that includes people from the upper as well as the lower classes and has a principle that from "Tea to ticket" the disciples wouldn't have to pay for anything to know about the Hindu religion, PM Modi had fondly remembered how founder of the sect Dada Panduran Shastri Athavale's visit to his village had inspired him to be part of community building. Modi will attend a function organised by the Swaminarayan sect in Ahmedabad on Sunday.   In pic: Patel patronage of the sects here, including at Swaminarayan ashram is evident While major religious groups are based in urban Gujarat, they also focus on rural areas. Followers of Lal Guru at Lalji Maharaj ni Jagya in village Sayla near Rajkot organise weekly ram leelas in the villages of Saurashtra in the evenings and in return urge people to donate rice, wheat, sugar and ghee that are used for running a free meals centre in its vast ashram. Every big person of the two political parties in the state (BJP and Congress) has come and stayed in the ashram that has several VIP rooms, said Bapu Chaturdas, a saint here. He said the sampradaya refuses to talk politics to its devotees, but tells them to choose the person and the party best fit to run the country. We only guide them about what they should look at in a leader. Rest is their choice, Chaturdas said. But you have to admit Narendra Modi's respect for traditions. He knows the saints by name and remembers the earlier discussions we have had. The sect has mostly followers from the patidar community and Chaturdas believes they "will not fall for stunts and vote for the government that can give a safe environment for business." Kinner Acharya, a political analyst based in Saurashtra, said more than self-realisation, self-effort and spirituality, people of Gujarat are now attracted to easy and sometimes reductive interpretations of nationalism. So in the last ten years, we have seen more and more religious sects and spiritual leaders focusing on nation building more, he said. Meetings of these groups are not free of political discussions. Tapan Thakkar, a Rajkot-based businessman and follower of Jalaram Bapa, said, Last year, we had a meeting of the Lohana samaj (that follows Jalaram Bapa) in Rajkot. The only point of discussion was how the Patidars were asking for more benefits when they have already gotten so much. We decided we will never let our community or state down like this. Nikunj Purohit, an MBA student whose family has been part of the Gayatri Parivar for years, said it is part of everyday life. I recite prayers and go for camps, he said. Also one has to be politically aware because there are forces inside the country trying to harm us too. Nikunj is part of Yuva Kranti Varsh programme the sect has started this year to make Indian youth more patriotic. For 35 year-old Rohitbhai Aretiya a yuva shibir (youth camp) at a remote Pransla village in Upleta Taluk of Rajkot district, just 60 kms from Porbandar, the birthplace of Mahatma Gandhi organised by spiritual guru Dharambandhu, a Saurashtra based spiritual leader did the trick. "Every year I would attend these eight day sessions that would focus on military solutions to Kashmir and internal security matters, I have heard people like GD Bakshi speak live. It is electrifying." Dharambandhu, a kathavachak who heads the Shri Vedic Mission Trust and apart from educating people on Hinduism, aims to inculcate patriotic spirit and spread the rich Indian culture among the countrys youth in Gujarat. At the Wadhwan Swaminarayan Ashram in Surendranagar, Sadhvi Renuka said Hindu as a religion has been simplified by the various sampradayas that function in Gujarat. Unlike north of India where religion in a festival or fasting affair, here it is an everyday affair, she said. Instead of fasting all day for their husbands and children, you will find women making suitable changes in their lives and families as dictated by gurus for the overall wellbeing of the family.  