Suman Layak
  AHMEDABAD: Gaurav Kulkarni, 25, is one of the scores of young interpreters milling around Ahmedabad. They are the linguistic cogs in this city of business. After school, the Satara boy chose to study Japanese at the Savitribai Phule Pune University because engineering prospects seemed dismal at that time. Yet, little did he know that within a decade, he would earn more than what some of the engineers would. Japanese-English interpreters are in great demand in Ahmedabad and surrounding industrial hubs. Kulkarni regularly introduces young students from his college to prospective employers in the city. The company where he works, Hitachi Hi-Rel Power Electronics, has three interpreters, each earning more than Rs 30,000 a month. Even cooks who know Japanese cuisine and hotels built to Japanese specifications, like deep carpets and bath tubs, are in demand. Hitendra Yadav, a hotelier building a 3.5 acre mini Japan in Vitthalapur, about 80 km west of Ahmedabad, says the state capital is now the biggest hub for Japanese professionals in India, bigger than Gurgaon or Chennai, two other places where he owns hotels.Like Yadav, Gujarat Inc is known for its sheer dynamism, nimbly moving with the times, staring down challenges and grabbing opportunities by the scruff of the neck. That is what the Tatas have done, when they made a success of their Nano factory in Sanand by shifting there most of the production of their latest success story, the Tiago. The Adani Group, led by Gautam Adani, is known to never let go of an opportunity and is now making a big splash in real estate in the state. Pranav Adani, who heads the agro, oil, gas and coal trading businesses, told ET Magazine that the group sees its role as one of building a new India. In an interview on the side lines of the inaugural Ahmedabad marathon on November 26, he said: All our businesses are aligned with the interest of the nation, be it logistics, energy, infrastructure or defence. Our aim is to contribute to the growth of the nations GDP.The metamorphosis happens in many ways, at many levels. The erstwhile promoters of Hitachi Hi-Rel Power have happily exchanged their hat of entrepreneurs for that of professionals, with Darshan Shah leading as director and chief manufacturing officer of the company, reporting to an expat MD, Kazuhiro Ima i e, while four Japanese expats work in his team, in turn. In this election season, Ahmedabads businessmen are also pushing their case with a government that is eager to please all. They are also discussing one particular young man: Hardik Patel. There is a sense of disbelief in the way he is leveraging caste  and that colours private conversations. A senior director of a top Ahmedabad company lets on that he himself is from the Patel community. Rasna chairman Piruz Khambatta, a Parsi, makes it a point to say that he has a relative who is a Patel. Conversations around Hardik easily segue into the state of jobs. And there are two different narratives. One, that Gujarat is attracting youngsters looking for jobs from across the country. Even as home-grown business groups have grown, investment from countries like Japan has soared. The recent visit of Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe saw the signing of 15 MoUs. At the same time, it cannot be denied that an election is being fought with joblessness as one of the main planks. Gujarat possibly has some of the most industry-friendly policies. And yet, there are multiple points of friction between industry and the state. Khambatta, who is also deputy chairman, Western Region, CII, drops a broad hint when he says a little less regulation could help businesses. I believe industry should be left alone to do its job, he told ET Magazine. Brands like Rasna and Wagh Bakri have gone global from Gujarat. Sam Balsara, founder of advertising agency Madison, says its amazing to note how brand after brand, founded in Gujarat, have made their mark across India and repeatedly challenged multinational players, while some have gone global. To its credit, the state government has tried to keep the industry happy, especially in the last six months. In order to placate the states heavyweight pharma industry  Torrent, Cadila, Sun  the government seems to have put in the backburner a plan to ask doctors to prescribe medicines by their generic names. The reduction in GST rates has, meanwhile, pleased the ceramics industry. Theres another advantage for Gujarati businessmen. Dilip Patel, president of All Gujarat Cotton Ginners Association, says: Speaking to the Gujarat government is equivalent to speaking to Arun Jaitley, Union finance minister. Dilip Patel was in conflict with the state government for most of November  over GST. About 1,300 cotton ginning units had threatened to go on strike over the reverse charge mechanism of GST on cotton that mandated buyers to pay the tax and not the farmers as the latter do not come under the tax net. In a meeting between Dilip Patel and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel on November 25, a solution was thrashed out. Later in the day, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani gave his blessings, with a promise that the GST Council would take up the issue in January. Meanwhile, ginners were allowed to recover the tax paid from exporters, who would claim refund from the government. Other pockets of unhappiness remain. The Surat diamond industry is one. The realty sector is another, grappling as it is with the new RERA regime. In late September, six workers were killed in an accident at Advanced Dyestuff, a chemical factory in Ahmedabads Vatva. The arrest of owner Kiran Patel rattled the sector. Shailesh Patwari, president of the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry, an apex body for small and medium industries, says it was the fourth such case of police action in the past two years. Why are the police slapping murder charges? Patel was in jail for almost two months. But, make no mistake, most industrialists in the state are quick to praise the positive approach of the government towards industry. Even Patwari says the state has the best industrial policy. Rasnas Khambatta is no exception. He praises the government for being proactive and says it has the best policies in the country for infotech and tech startups. But he also has a wish list. Khambatta says he wants the state government to pick up the more difficult reforms in agriculture and labour and change laws on land acquisitions. Shah of Hitachi adds that it is all about opportunity, maximising it and making it accessible to everyone  be it a young man seeking a job or an industrialist.The Big Business Gautam Adani, founder, Adani Group: Many members of the Adani family landed up for the inaugural Ahmedabad marathon on November 26, sponsored by the group. While Gautam Adani decided to walk behind the half-marathoners after flagging them off, son Karan Adani ran the half-marathon. He told ET Magazine that this is his second attempt. The Adanis represent the big business in Gujarat which flourished in the Modi era and has now gone global. The association with the PM is so strong that the elections in Mundra are being touted as a battle between the Congress and Adani. Pranav Adani, who heads the oil, gas and coal trading businesses, says the group sees itself as a nation-builder and all their businesses are aligned with the interest of the nation. FMCG Flavour Piruz Khambatta, CMD, Rasna: Khambatta, the western region deputy chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry, represents Gujarati companies that succeeded with FMCG brands in the 1980s and 1990s. While Amul, Rasna and Nirma are old favourites, the state keeps churning out brands that go national  think Fortune, Havmor, Vadilal and Fogg. Khambatta says the challenge at Rasna is always to keep the brand relevant. From a powdered concentrate maker of the 1980s and 1990s, Rasna has come a long way, has had many brand extensions and also entered the baked foods market with Vitos. Rasna sells in markets outside India too. Khambatta says he would like to see some more action from the government in areas like land, labour and agri reforms. Old Favourite Piyush Desai, chairman, Wagh Bakri: Wagh Bakri is an old brand in Gujarat, owned by Gujarat Tea Processors and Packers Ltd. The business had roots in South Africa more than 100 years ago. Desai himself is a tea-tasting expert. The youngest family member on the board of the company, Parag Desai, is also a tea sommelier and executive director, in that order. The Desais have been contemplating taking the company public for some time. Its export footprint follows the Indian diaspora across the globe. The company is running a campaign to ask people to go out and vote in the assembly elections . Parag Desai says that for reasons not clearly understood, voting percentages have remained moderate to low in Gujarat, and Wagh Bakri is doing its bit to improve it. Businessman to Professional Darshan Shah, chief manufacturing officer, Hitachi Hi-Rel Power Electronics: He is the new face of Gujarat. A member of a traditional business family engaged in trading, he has taken the role of a professional. The company was started by the Atmaram Maneklal family in the early 1980s. Shah joined in the 1990s. This was a manufacturing venture in power drives and inverters. In 2011 Hitachi took a 65% stake in the company and transferred technology. In 2015, Hitachi bought out the entire stake, and invested in a new plant in Sanand. While Hitachi brought in a new managing director, Shah and other family members stayed on in different roles, transitioning from business owners to professionals.  New Guests, New Opportunities Hitendra Yadav, chairman, Le Tokyo: Le Tokyo hotel, close to the Sanand Industrial Estate, is a testimony to the growing Japanese population in Gujarat, especially in Ahmedabad. It was called Krsnaleela until February when Yadav, a Gurgaon-based businessman, took over it. He converted it into a hub for Japanese professionals. It also has a restaurant called Miyabi that serves a full Japanese menu. Yadav, who was a supplier to Maruti a decade ago, moved to the hospitality sector after his Japanese friends requested him to start a hospitality venture for them. He has similar establishments in Gurgaon and Chennai. A project called mini Japan is underway in Vitthalapur, opposite the Honda factory near Ahmedabad  it has a 4-star hotel, a mall and flats built to Japanese specifications like deep carpets, bath tubs and strict safety norms. He has also acquired a hotel near Dasad close to a Maruti factory and it is being re-fitted.  Small-Scale Messiahs For a chamber largely for small and medium scale industry, the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce has a large office in Ahmedabad. Two large hoardings against Chinese goods dominate the entrance. The chamber has been assertive in the election season, asking parties to include demands from businesses in their respective manifestos. Shailesh Patwari, president of the chamber, says: This is the only way we can ask them to fulfil their promises. The chamber is the apex body of nine regional chambers, 205 sectoral associations and has over two lakh members. While it is affiliated to Ficci and Assocham, members say that the interests of the larger national chambers are aligned towards big businesses, and small and medium enterprises have to do their own representations with the government. The Ginning Genie Dilip Patel has been heading the All Gujarat Cotton Ginners Association for almost 15 years now and is also a convenor of the All India Cotton Ginners Association for at least seven years. Along with business partner Saurin Parikh, he leads the 4,000-odd businessmen who are cotton ginners, of which 30% are in Gujarat. Patels business was started by his elder brother 45 years ago. The cotton ginners were vocal about the woes caused by demonetisation last year and also took on the state government on the issue of reverse charge mechanism of GST, threatening a strike. Patels business extends from cotton ginning to cotton seed oil mills and edible oil refining. He also runs an exports business along with Parikh.   