Vasudha Venugopal
 The people of Gujarat have for long chosen development over caste politics and it will be no different in this election, BJP president Amit ShahtoldETin an interview, exuding confidence that the party would easily meet its target of winning 150 out of 182 seats since public support for Prime Minister Narendra Modi remains intact. There are no takers in the state for any promises made by the Congress, said Shah, who has been camping in Gujarat for more than 45 days, meeting party workers and micromanaging the BJPs poll preparations. Excerpts: Your target of 150 seats is being seen as ambitious by some and impossible by some others, considering that the BJP won 115 seats in Gujarat in 2012   The target of 150 is neither ambitious nor impossible. Since 2014, in state elections we have kept the vote share of the party in the Lok Sabha polls intact, be it in Maharashtra, Jharkhand, UP, Bihar, Delhi or Goa. We have increased it in states like Manipur and Uttarakhand. So we havent let our public support dilute anywhere in the country after 2014. The jan samarthan (public support) for Narendra Modis government, considering the work it has done in the last three years, is intact even today. If we are able to translate the voter support for the BJP in 2014 into assembly seats in 2017, we should be getting 165 seats. So I have only estimated less than that.The Congress has built an alliance of caste leaders and is raising identity issues. Do you see the people of Gujarat voting on caste lines this time?   Not at all. The people of Gujarat have for long rejected caste politics that was here some years ago. They have always chosen vikaswad (development) over jaatiwad (casteism) and that is what will happen this year too. I have full confidence that as the election comes closer, the discussion will become all about development, about who can deliver on the promise of growth and development, and who cannot.Do you apprehend any erosion in the BJPs youth base, now that three young leaders (Hardik Patel, Alpesh Thakor and Jignesh Mevani) are challenging the party?   What happened here was entirely a ploy of the Congress, which decided to outsource its election to other people because the party felt it could not get support on its own. But as the election nears, all these people have got exposed. People know about what they are, what they did, everything. It is an outsourced election for the Congress completely and such things, such gimmicks wont run for long. People can see through them very easily. I have been saying this since the beginning.Rahul Gandhi has been camping in Gujarat and has addressed numerous public meetings. Do you think his presence will benefit the Congress?   The impact of his campaign in Gujarat will only be known after the results. He did the same thing in Uttar Pradesh too. The results are for everyone to see. Had he toured Amethi the way he is touring Gujarat, then perhaps at least his municipality would have remained with the Congress today.How do you view the results of the UP civic polls?   It is a very big mandate. We have tried our best to take UP out of caste-ridden and appeasement politics. Yogi Adityanath as the CM has provided good governance and the image of PM Narendra Modi as someone who delivers is on peoples minds. The result is reflective of peoples acceptance of the faith they have in the BJP. I am very thankful to the people of UP for this judgment and I would only see it as our responsibility to respect the faith they have in us and stand up to the expectations.What will be the implications of a BJP win in Gujarat on national politics?   Every election has an impact on national elections. Since 2014 we have been winning most of the elections. It is only natural that the Gujarat win will positively impact our performance in coming elections, especially Karnataka. As far as other states are concerned, our governments are doing a good job there. The organisation is pretty strong too. The party has one crore eight lakh members here, of which 70 lakh are directly involved in this election. Not just booth management, but even beyond that, page pramukhs have already been appointed and the work in going on. There cannot be an organisation better than this, I feel. And to make the organisation this strong, Modiji has had a big role to play. All karyakartas (workers) are emotionally attached to Modiji  which matters a lot.What would you count as the biggest benefit to Gujarat since the Narendra Modi government took charge at the Centre?   Gujarat has benefited in several ways since Narendra Modi took over as the PM. First, the problem of the height of the Narmada dam that was undecided for years, was solved in 13-14 days after Modiji became the PM. Even the permission for the gates to be closed came by. This will bring a huge difference to the lives of people living in places that face severe water shortage. We had several other issues including royalty of oil and gas companies in the state that the UPA had refused to release for many years. That was immediately released by Modiji. Now the state government in Gujarat gets Rs 8,000 crore more, which is a big thing. Under the 13th finance commission, Gujarat was getting Rs 63,000 crore, but under the 14th finance commission we will get Rs 1,58,000 crore. Apart from this, the state has got the bullet train, highways extending beyond 1,200 km, 33 new trains and an AIIMS. All the years that the UPA was in power it never thought of giving an AIIMS to Gujarat. That, too, the Narendra Modi government had to do. Even the central schemes rolled out in the last three years  Mudra bank, Ujjwala Yojana  have benefited the state the most because there was already an existing infrastructure developed in Gujarat that made their implementation easier.What do you make of Rahul Gandhis promise to waive loans of farmers if the Congress comes to power? Do you think the Congress strategy of banking on 98 rural seats where farmers have expressed displeasure with the BJP governments agricultural policies will pay off?   I dont think any promise made by the Congress has any appeal among voters. All that I want to say is that what the BJP government has done for the farmers is incredible in many respects. When our government came to power, the farmers in the state were getting loans at an interest of 17 per cent. Today it is zero per cent. It is a significant step. Increase in irrigated land under SAUNI (Saurashtra-Narmada Avataran Irrigation) Yojana that so far has 21 dams, 48 lakes and 174 check dams or the Sujalam Sufalam Yojana, traversing through seven districts from Mahi to Banas river, which includes diversion of surplus flood water of Kadana Reservoir and Narmada to the water deficit areas, increase in areas being cultivated under drip irrigation and micro irrigation through sprinklers  the scale of irrigation has increased significantly under our government. I would give one example  produce of vegetables used to be 20 lakh tonnes during the Congress rule. Now it is one crore 20 lakh tonnes. Cotton produced has increased from 29 lakh ghatad to one crore 23 lakh in the last few years. There has been a significant increase in the quantity of wheat, rice and milk produced too, and all other crops. So where has the money coming from the increase in the produce of crops gone? It has gone to the farmers only. The biggest thing we have done for farmers is take electricity to their houses. Earlier, farmers would barely have six hours of electricity. Their life was miserable. Today farmers of Gujarat have not only electricity but also access to healthcare, education and even entertainment in their households, by way of TV and other things. It is a significant change in lifestyle that we see in farmers households. It has more quality and is in stark contrast to what existed during Congress time, when a farmers life was of despair.You have had several meetings with traders. What sort of concerns did they express?   There used to be a time in Gujarat when in a year 200-250 days would go waste in curfew. It used to be even more than that. Narendra Modis government ended all that. Traders know the importance of a curfew-mukt (free) Gujarat. They value it. There was a time when inspector raj and political interference in setting up of factories were common in the state. It was only after the Modi government came that these things became a thing of the past. Development has been possible in the state only because of that.Would you say the problems in implementation of the GST have been completely resolved?   I wouldnt say completely resolved but I would say we are looking at it very sensitively. In the last three months, several changes have been made too, keeping the concerns in mind. Rules have been changed to ease them. Laws are being looked at too, drafts of which with changes will be put before Parliament.There has been some talk of you joining the cabinet   (Laughs) No question of me going into the cabinet. The responsibility of a BJP president that the party has given me is huge. All my energies are focused on making the BJP get a better mandate in 2019 that what it did in 2014.How does it feel spending time in Gujarat after a long time?   (Smiles) Achcha lagta hai (feels nice). It always feels nice to be here.What is your view on the controversy over the film Padmavati?   The party has made its position clear on this. What we feel is that if there is a movie made on history, it needs to be substantiated with historical facts and evidence so that there are no distortions, misrepresentations or mischief with presentation of facts. A committee of historians can watch the film closely and see if it has been true to history.  