NIDHI SHARMA
  VIRAMGAM/SANAND/DHOLKA/DHANDUKA: Congress is set to make inroads in BJP bastion of Ahmedabad, guarded by the saffron party for 15 years. Unemployment, expensive government education, angst among small traders, a meticulous ticket distribution and several rounds of door-to-door campaigning have put Congress in the reckoning for the first time in decades. Be it a Muslim transporter in Viramgam, a small trader in Sabarmati, a small-bites shop owner in Dholka or a rickshawpuller in Dhandhuka  the traditional BJP stronghold of Ahmedabad comprising 21 constituencies is talking about change even threatening BJP ministers. In 2012, Congress won a mere 4 of 21 seats in largely urban Ahmedabad. With Viramgam MLA Tejshreeben Patel crossing over to BJP, Congress is going into elections with just three MLAs. However, on the ground there is an undercurrent that it is determined to tap. Viramgam is not happy with Patel. SK Quraishi, a small tranporter, says: We have always voted Congress. With Tejshreeben going to the other side we dont think we can trust her. A similar sentiment is echoed by Maheshbhai, a tea stall owner, and Ramabhai, a casual labourer. We have been living peacefully together. We want to maintain that, says Ramabhai. The district boasts of factories and several plants of car majors like Maruti, Tata and Honda. On the face of it, employment does not seem to be a problem. There are even swanky housing complexes in rural Viramgam and Sanand. Jatinbhai, who works at Tata plant in Sanand, says, There are no jobs. These colonies you see are for outsiders who have cornered 80% of the jobs. Villagers and we educated youngsters have to leave our district and go 300 kms away for jobs. Maheshbhai, in his 40s, says employers have the impression that Gujaratis are lazy and dont work and prefer outsiders. There are no jobs. You see there would be a change soon, he says. Several kilometres across the district in rural Dholka seat, Congress Aswin Kamubhai Rathod is posing a tough challenge to minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama. Gakkubhai, a small tea shop owner in the main bazar, says, I have voted for BJP only. But this time it would be Congress. Ask him why and he says, Samaaj ne bola hai. Even BJP supporters in Dholka say the fight is tough as Kamubhai has support of Koli Patels, Muslims and Dalits who outnumber Chudasamas Rajput caste. In urban seats, the trading community is not happy. The traders lament dhanda nahin hai. In Sabarmati, in the heart of the market traders say market sentiment is down. I would buy in bulk and on credit. But not anymore. The wholesaler has to show his bills from where he buys so he cannot sell it to me  a small retailer  on credit. He says pay now and pick up later but it cannot be reverse, says Mangubhai, a pan bhandar owner. How far this translates into votes is what the Congress is trying to see.  