Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay
  Nilofer Memon, a Muslim in her early 20s, shared thoughts during an interaction with graduate students inside a college classroom in Mehsana. She was unequivocal in her support for the BJP and all for PM Narendra Modis stance on instant triple talaq. He has taken a firm stand for stopping this wrong practice and I will vote for his party, declared the firsttime voter amid muted desk-thumping by other girl-students, all Hindus most of who back BJP. The boys in the class, significantly from the Scheduled Castes, did not join the cheering because, as one explained, BJP or Modi do not think of development policies to benefit us. The teacher, a self-confessed BJP woman karyakarta, later explained Dalits cannot see beyond the Gandhi-Nehru family. And, we also do not spend time trying to get their support. This vignette during a fiery electoral contest that is posing a serious challenge to BJP hegemony is two-sided: Firstly, a young Muslim woman is breaking ranks on an issue that has been stoked by Modi and other party leaders since October 2016 when the Law Commission put out a questionnaire reopening the debate on Uniform Civil Code. Secondly, the teachers bluntness underscores the inherent contradictions in the Sangh Parivars efforts to forge all-encompassing Hindu unity because activists do not put the fight against social stratification into practise. The Union governments decision to circulate a draft law proposing a maximum of three-year jail term for a Muslim man divorcing his wife by announcing instant triple talaq, or talaq-e-biddat, has put the spotlight on the likely electoral choice of Muslim women in the Gujarat polls. Nilofers assertion assumes centre-stage because the moot point is whether there are others like her or if, Muslim women will vote along with males in the community, the majority of who are expected to vote for the Congress. Nilofer has personal reason too for backing BJP and Modi -- she was divorced by her husband by triple talaq when she gave birth to a girl child. Not all in the community, however, look at elections from the same prism for divorce rates among Muslims in Gujarat is marginally higher than Hindus. Compared to Muslims elsewhere, prevalence of instant triple talaq is lower in Gujarat. Additionally, sex ratio in the community, especially for preadolescent girls, is higher. Not every Muslim woman in Gujarat carries a bagful of woes as Nilofer does. She also is a Memon, among the few sub-communities who look at the BJP relatively favourably. The probability of Gujarati Muslim women voting for BJP candidates will be dependent on their self-definition in the days before the polls on December 9 and 14. Will they look at themselves as women first and Muslims later, or vice versa? Will they give greater primacy to gender issues or to the wider question of alienation of Muslims in the state? The answer to these questions have to be filtered through the lens that gave Muslim women in Gujarat their first public profile. In the 2002 violence, women faced the brunt of murderous mobs and many were brutally gang-raped. Sexual violence against Muslim women followed the pattern of ethnic and inter-community clashes when women are customarily treated as fields on which patriarchal lords of the two sides fight their battles. Significantly also, the fight for justice for victims of 2002 and on issues like anti-terrorism laws was spearheaded by women and they remain at its forefront even now. Consequently, women in Gujarat have remained in the background in the battle against instant triple talaq when compared to those in other states. Yet in the past year, Muslim women activists from elsewhere lobbied with government and BJP for codification of personal laws for the community. Zaroorat padhne par, ko bhi baap banana padta hai, (when situation demands, you have to even appease a fool) is a popular Indian idiom and is mentioned in the middle of Gujarats election campaign by a woman activist with a wry smile. This indicates Muslim women perceive their struggle at two levels - firstly against communalism and secondly against patriarchal hierarchy in the community. By engaging with BJP, Muslim women sent a clear signal to men in the community, especially custodians to theology -- pursuit of secular politics cannot be justification for continuance of morbid patriarchal norms. Likewise, the message to BJP is that support on gender issue does not mean that continuing marginalisation of the community is acceptable.  