Rakesh Mohan Chaturvedi
  DANG/NAVSARI: The tribals living in South Gujarat have remained deprived of many social welfare schemes launched by the Narendra Modi government as well as the state dispensation due to red tape and are not impressed with the prime ministers speeches as they feel his programmes benefit only the urban and well-off people. The general complaint in Dang, Vansadaa and Dharampur constituencies in Dang and Navsari districts is that local authorities trouble the tribals when they try to open their Jan Dhan accounts, that they have not been given funds under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, and that they have to pay a high price for basic facilities like LPG cylinders which has seen an increase in cost four times in the last one year. Authorities insisting on Aadhar or creating hurdles citing rules and laws have made the Bhils, Kunbis and Dhoria Patels of Dang and Navsari bitter and they say they are likely to vote for Congress this time. Only Rs 30,000 has been put in my bank account under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. I have bought bricks. I am waiting for the rest of the money, Govind, a Dhoria Patel of Singhad village in Navsari district, said. The tribals grow danger (rice), naagli, tuar, urad here but it serves only to feed their families and there is nothing left to sell. They are dependent on Khapri, Ambika and Poorna rivers for irrigation.In Dharampur, shopkeepers say their business has suffered due to Goods and Services Tax. Those selling tiles and other building material complain that their sales have been reduced by half in the last three months as supplies from Morbi and other areas have been low. Earlier our business suffered for three months after demonetisation, said a local trader. Most tribals in the area have to go to neighbouring Maharashtra or to Dharampur further up north in Gujarat in search of employment as labourers in fields. The Bhil and Kunbi tribes that reside in Dang district are not impressed with Modi. He builds roads and airports. Of what use are those to us? said Mangal Gavit. Many of them said they would vote for the Congress. Mangalbhai Gavit, the Congress candidate and the MLA, is said to be very accessible and down to earth. Here people vote more for the individual than the party. Mangalbhai does not have any ego and attends even small functions, Vinay Choriya, a local dhaba owner said. Vijay Patel, the BJP candidate had lost in 2012. People recall that though he had won the 2007 Assembly poll he lost in 2012 as he had not worked for the constituency. Others say though their Jan Dhan accounts were opened, the bank wants them to maintain a minimum deposit of Rs 1,000.  