NIDHI SHARMA
  BHARUCH/GODHRA/ DAHOD/VADODARA: The results of Uttar Pradesh civic body elections may be resonating in election-bound Gujarat, but ironically the talk isnt all about BJPs clean sweep at the mayoral elections; much of it also revolves around the electronic voting machines (EVMs). The debate across Gujarat, which would go for its first phase of polling on Saturday (December 9), is whether EVMs are really tamper-proof. Congress campaign on social media, especially on WhatsApp, is buzzing with the question whether EVMs can really favour the party in power. This argument has gained traction even in largely-tribal Dahod district and Panchmahal. Kanshibhai Chauhan of Halol village in Dahod district said, Everythings managed. How else can BJP win 14 of the 16 mayoral elections in UP where EVMs were used. In the civic body elections, it has lost where ballot papers were used, but nobody is bringing that out. Why doesnt the government settle it once and for all and conduct some elections on ballot papers?Congress has even circulated statistics saying that in panchayat polls conducted on 5390 ballot papers, BJP lost as many as 4,728 seats, but it won 14 of 16 mayoral positions which were conducted on EVMs. In the remote tribal villages beyond Bharuch city, there are many interesting theories that are floating around. Theres a small chip that they install inside voting machine, said Samirbhai Patel of Jhagadiya town. This chip converts all votes for BJP. Even if you press panja (Congress symbol) or teer-kamaan (bow and arrow symbol of Janata Dal-United), the vote goes to BJP, he alleged. Patel even refuses to buy the logic that Congress candidates, or Chottubhai Vasava of Jhagadiya, got elected in the same way (using EVMs), and insists that the machines have been tampered. In Godhra town, a largely Muslim-dominated constituency, the EVM debate is hot topic for the electorate. But the voters have not heard of Voter verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines which would be used by Election Commission across over 50,000 polling booths in Gujarat. These machines would give each voter a slip to corroborate whether the vote he has cast has gone to his favoured party. Wallahbhai in Godhra and Mahendrasinh Chauhan in Dahod havent heard of this machine. But will they tally the number of votes cast to a party from each booth with this paper receipt I get, asked Chauhan. EC has decided to randomly tally this paper trail in at least 10% of the polling booths.  