Vasudha Venugopal
  RADHANPUR, PATAN: Young OBC leader Alpesh Thakore who joined Congress in the run-up to Gujarat elections may find it too hard to win his electoral battle in Radhanpur despite his communitys strong presence in the constituency. He seems to have run into way too many challenges that include caste consolidations to beat the Thakore uprising, a divided community even among the Thakores, BJPs aggressive push to defeat the young leader, and lack of organisational push for him. Alpesh also faces the tag of being an outsider candidate who is contesting elections here hoping his community will support him, even as his primary rival, BJP's candidate Lavinji Thakore, too belongs to the same community. To start with, Radhanpur has about 60,000 Thakore voters, which is almost one-fourth of its total electorate of 2.5 lakhs. The constituency also has significant presence of Chaudharys, Rajputs, Rabaris, Ahirs, Bharwads and several other backward communities, besides a significant Muslim population.Lavinji Thakore was previously with the Congress and while he is considered a grass-root leader, the community seems to be a little miffed with him for not having "consulted them" when he switched over to BJP. I am known as the man who vacated the seat for CM Shankersinh Vaghela in 1997," said Lavinji Thakore. I have been here for a while. It is not everyday that you get a BJP ticket hence I took it. The Thakore sons are being misled, but the fathers are with me. I have convinced them," he said. Radhanpur constituency is presently with BJP.Founder of OBC, SC and ST Ekta March, Alpesh Thakore hails from Viramgam. He is said to have picked Radhanpur because the dominant community here is the Thakores. Registered among OBCs, Thakores of north Gujarat are mostly agricultural labourers and have been battling two major socio-economic issues: lack of education and addiction to country liquor. They have a higher presence in north Gujarat areas including Patan, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Banaskantha and Gandhinagar. OBCs form the largest, 40% vote chunk in Gujarat. Alpesh's influence in north Gujarat is being keenly watched, as it is a tough battle for BJP as traditionally this region has supported Congress more. Also, this year, it has been the centre for both the Patidar and the OBC unrest movements. Political analyst Shirish Kashikar said it would be wrong to assume that Thakores voted as one block or had a camaraderie just like the Patidars would be wrong.They are scattered in Gujarat and in some places they vote along with the Chowdharys, Kashikar said. Most often their choice differs with the candidate in the local area. He said that it would also be wrong to see Alpesh Thakore as the leader of all OBCs. There are 146 communities and there is often competition and rivalry among them." Minister of state Shankar Chaudhary, who enjoys a significant clout in the district as well as in its cooperative sector, said Radhanpur in the last few years has been benefitted by the development work of the Modi government, including canals. Thakore leaders here have assured us support here. We have no reason to worry," he told ET. Alpeshs appeal to his own community to boycott illicit liquor has had mixed reactions, with many of them blaming him for disrupting their livelihoods and majority of them praising his work. Some also feel that that he shouldn't have entered politics as he himself had earlier said he wouldn't. He has done good work for his community. But he cannot call himself the leader of all other backward communities, said Jayantibhai Prajapati, a welder here. That chief minister Vijay Rupani camped in Banaskanta and Patan for five days during the floods recently have also earned the appreciation of people here. Days before Alpesh Thakore was announced as the candidate from Radhanpur, several people were hoping that it would be Govind Thakore. Govind Thakore was a class 1 government employee, the first in our community to reach that in north Gujarat, said Shambaji Thakore, a farmer here. Respect comes from validation from other communities, government. But he was not even allowed to fill up the dummy candidate form, he said. Also, Congress seems to have left Alpesh to fight on his own appeal as there is hardly any party organisational support given to his campaign. "There are party leaders here who don't want him to rise," Shambaji said. The support for Alpesh is evident in youngsters of the community, but older Thakores are not confident. For years the Thakores have been supporting leaders from other communities but what have we got? Today, the Chaudharys and Barots and Prajapatis not only get seats in colleges but also jobs, said Ramabhai Thakore (42) who feels it is necessary for the community to come together to vote for Alpesh. On December 10, the Thakore community has called for a meeting of its members to see what needs to be done. The elections here are slated on December 14 in the second phase. BJP has been reaching out to the Thakore community. Three days ago, in the heart of Radhanpur Rajasthan minister PP Chowdhury and sitting MLA Nagarji Thakore, along with Thakore leaders of the area assembled and pledged support to BJP. BJP President Amit Shah himself had a meeting with the workers of this area in Deesa, asking them to work to the best of their abilities to help BJP win. Every day as part of its campaign, the party sends out an SUV with leaders of one particular non-Thakore community to go to their respective vastis, campaign and get feedback. A tailor in Radhanpur, Mansukhbhai Darji said that while the Thakores were putting their weight behind Alpesh, he was sure that all other communities wanted to see BJP win. Years ago our roads were known to damage tyres of bikes. They were that bad. New roads, water, the first medical college in North Gujarat all came up in this area after Modi became the CM, Darji said.  