NIDHI SHARMA
  JHAGADIA (BHARUCH): Ask anyone in Jhagadia town where to find their sitting MLA Chottubhai Vasava and pat comes the reply  he would be at home. Ask after his health, and his workers shoot a quizzical look. In the middle of the hectic election campaigning he is hale and hearty but he doesnt step out of his home to canvass for himself. About 10 km from Jhagadia town, Vasava lives in his home in remote Vasna village. Cellphones dont work here, but that doesnt matter because he is always available on his landline. I have never gone to the people. I always go to them after elections are over to thank them for reposing their faith in me, he says. Vasava has developed this style over the years. His workers campaign for him and if there is a group in any village they think should be addressed directly by six-time MLA Vasava, they gather them and bring the people to him. Vasava is in for a tough fight this time. His biggest challenge comes from within. His trusted lieutenant of two decades Ravjibhai Vasava has joined BJP and has been fielded against him. His former party, Janata Dal (United), has fielded a namesake Chottubhai Abhesingbhai Vasava  a well-thought strategy to confuse the voters, who are largely tribals. Vasavas Bharatiya Tribal Party has got the symbol of an autorickshaw. Amit Shah declared in a rally in Bharuch that I have to be defeated here by a margin of at least 7,000 votes. It is their mission since my decisive vote ensured their defeat in the Rajya Sabha election of Ahmedbhai (Congress veteran Ahmed Patel), he says adding, It is essential that Gujarat defeats this man (Amit Shah). He is not good for the country. This is why I have aligned with Congress. Contesting his seventh election in Gujarat, Vasava says he has been struggling for equal rights for tribals for decades now. No government has implemented the Constitution  Schedule V and VI are for tribals. Nowhere in India have these been implemented in letter and spirit. There are special grants meant for tribals, they dont reach us. Instead, they are diverted to make swanky airports and even buy helicopters, says Vasava. The 70-year-old says he has spoken to successive chief ministers to ensure they give more grants to the area but no government has obliged. Employment remains a challenge in this tribal constituency, which has over 1.25 lakh tribal voters. Educated youth have to travel to Ankleshwar or Bharuch for work. Vasava acknowledges that this is a problem all over the state but especially in tribal areas like Jhagadia. The state government has done nothing. We have schools but no other development. If you see our educated youngsters just sit idle, he says. Vasava feels that if the rainbow coalition brought together by Congress comes to power, the state would progress. We know that it would benefit the tribals, he said adding that others in the coalition should also fight for the rights of their people. Alpesh shouldnt have joined Congress. Leaders like us who come from within the people have to maintain the identity of the struggles of our people. When we join a party we get subsumed and the people we represent dont get their say. He had a bigger responsibility, he should have formed a separate party and supported Congress, Vasava says. Apart from the election, the septuagenarian is looking forward to his biopic on the silver screen. He is producing it and proudly shows off the music score and poster. It showcases my work in the constituency, he says as he poses next to the poster.  