ET CONTRIBUTORS
 By Nilanjan MukhopadhyayAsked about the principal difference between elections in Gujarat in 2012 and 2017, BJP president Amit Shah had said, [The BJP] had a government that was trying development in the face of a central government that was opposed to it. In 2017, Gujarat and the Centre both have BJP governments. This difference is the partys problem this time. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Centre, a major campaign thrust, essential for BJP victories 2002 onwards, has been blunted. Instead of being the challenger to a Union government depicted as being opposed to Gujarati asmita (pride) and Gujarats development, the state BJP is now an unimpressive junior partner to the Centre. Post-2002, the Congress was portrayed as an anti-Gujarat party while the BJP appropriated the role of being custodians of Gujarati sub-nationalism. In 2002, this was possible due to the Congress campaign against Modi in the aftermath of the post-Godhra violence. In 2007 and 2009, the argument carried weight because the UPA was in power at the Centre. The centrality of the argument that the Congress impedes Gujarats development resurfaced in October when the PM, while inaugurating the Ro-Ro (roll on, roll off) ferry service between Ghogha and Dahej, accused the party of hampering the project by refusing environmental clearance when it was in government. But such accusations cant be levelled against the Congress when reasoning with people seeking answers from the BJP for their economic stagnation and while warding off a significant, though not yet quantifiable, anti-incumbent sentiment. The BJPs predicament is similar to Left Fronts in West Bengal when it supported the UPA regime in 2004-08. Long used to sustaining itself on anti-Congressism, being seen as the Centres partner added to problems created by the state governments ineptitude in handling land acquisition issues. After 2004, the CPI(M) could not cover its deficiencies by playing the blame game.State in the Centre   Post-2014, it has been the same for the BJP in Gujarat. Like West Bengal and some other states, people in Gujarat got used to a political culture that was anti-Centre. In the absence of this other, the BJP is likely to struggle to meet the target of 150 seats set by Shah. The ability to set the agenda has been one of the cornerstones of Modis political campaigns. This time in Gujarat, however, he has mainly been in reactive mode and has shifted from issue to issue. This suggests being unsure of what will resonate with the people and appearing like a batsman, unsure whether to play on the front foot or go on the back foot. His declaration of willingness to pay a political price for pursuing anti-corruption measures midway through indicated that he realises that the task is uphill. It is not that the BJP has not faced challenges previously. In 2012, BJP patriarch Keshubhai Patel posed a significant challenge. But earlier, Modi was present on the ground in Gujarat to manage the crisis. This time in his absence, there are no damage controllers. The failure of the BJPs secondrank leaders to rise to the occasion exposes their limitations. But it also denotes Modis failure to groom another leader to prevent a political vacuum after he moved to New Delhi. In contrast, the Opposition has framed the main themes of the campaign. One of the most important characteristics of this election is that the sentiment pointing to the flaws in the BJPs governance model and policies in Gujarat has been articulated first mainly by the people. Anti-incumbent sentiments came to the fore for the first time during the Navratri festival season in September when the Vikas gando thayo chhe (Development has gone mad) campaign on social media became popular. The Congress tactically piggybacked a ride on this vocal public sentiment. It is more than a week since campaigning entered the decisive last leg, with Modi embarking on his most challenging electoral blitzkrieg. A dichotomy is visible between his decision to stay on the old track of delegitimising the Congress and its leaders, besides raking up Hindutva-centric issues, and the popular discourse that is shifting from generalities about flaws in vikas to specific shortfalls regarding economy, jobs, education and the delivery of social services. Recent conversations have increasingly focused on widening inequity and diminishing opportunities. This anti-incumbent sentiment has not been ignited by the Congress. Instead, it is attempting to harness this in its favour, with significant assistance from its strategic HAJ (Hardik [Patel]-Alpesh [Thakore]-Jignesh [Mevani]) allies.Trial by Ire   The BJP is accusing the Congress of propping up full-blown casteist politics mainly to deflect the anti-incumbent sentiment. In a terrain where it has been unchallenged since the BJP established its hegemony 22 years ago, there is still support  for instance, from milk farmers getting higher procurement price from Amul in Gujarat than counterparts in other states. Solidity of its urban support also prevents any mass erosion. For the BJP to counter the anti-incumbent sentiment in the few days now available with little else as a potent weapon apart from Modi, this could be a more difficult election for the party than expected.  