ET Bureau
  MUMBAI: The stock market snapped its three-day losing run and rebounded on Thursday after pre-poll surveys showed Bharatiya Janata Party would win the Gujarat elections this month. Heightened uncertainty about the BJPs prospects in the state elections had weighed on investor sentiment in recent days with key indices ending lower in six out of seven days till Wednesday. On Thursday, the indices shrugged off the recent pessimism, with the Sensex rising 352.03 points, or 1.08%, to close at 32,949.21. The Nifty gained 122.60 points, or 1.22%, to close at 10,166.70. The indices had fallen about 3.5% from November 27 to December 6. The outcome of the final round of Times Now-VMR opinion poll, which showed BJP would win in Gujarat, calmed frayed nerves in the market. The survey showed the BJPs victory, however, may be much more modest than its expectations. Still, this came as a relief for investors, who want political stability as the government attempts to steer the economy out of the slump. BJPs performance in Gujarat is seen as a testimony to the Narendra Modi-led governments acceptance at the ground level. There will be volatility ahead of the poll results but impact of the poll outcome will only be sentimental, said Andrew Holland, chief executive officer of Avendus Capital-Alternate Strategies.VIX Drops 5.4%   Gujarat elections will be held on December 9 and 14. The results will be declared on December 18. NSEs Volatility Index dropped 5.4% to 14.27 on Thursday, suggesting traders are less nervous about near-term risks in the market. The index had risen close to 12% in the last seven trading sessions till Wednesday as traders bought more options as an insurance against their share portfolios. VIXs movements are based on Nifty options values. The Reserve Bank of Indias decision to keep interest rates unchanged on Wednesday citing inflationary pressures added to the nervousness, sparking a selloff in the market. Foreign portfolio investors sold Rs 1,076 crore worth of shares on Thursday while their domestic peers were buyers worth Rs 927 crore. Foreigners, who have been sellers in five out of the last six trading sessions, have pulled Rs 4,800 crore out of Indian stocks in the period. Analysts said the pre-poll survey gave traders a reason to cut some of their bearish bets on Thursday. The broader market too showed strength with the BSEs mid-cap index jumping 1.4% and small-cap index gaining 1.3%. Gainers outnumbered losers 1860:818 across categories on the BSE. In case there is an adverse verdict (in elections), the mid-cap index which is trading at lofty valuations could be at risk, said Dhananjay Sinha, head of research, Emkay Global Financial Services. Money managers expect the market to be edge even after the Gujarat elections. The market will be influenced more by global factors than domestic factors, said Holland. The US Fed will hike rates later this month and we need to see if their commentary is hawkish or dovish.  