DP Bhattacharya
  GANDHINAGAR: The din of electioneering for the first phase of Gujarat assembly polls ended as the sun set over the Arabian Sea on Thursday. Now, voters in 89 constituencies across Saurashtra and South Gujarat will make a call on Saturday, having heard it all. This is a state election, but the campaign has covered issues that are more national than that of the state, and often slipped into communal rants. At the end of the day, the battle is between son of the soil Prime Minister Narendra Modi and soon to be Congress president Rahul Gandhi, both of whom have extensively toured the state and made significant effort to carry the campaign on their shoulders. If Gandhi started and banked extensively over GST and demonetisation to cash on the two decade old anti-incumbency, he did also weave in local issues of unemployment, healthcare and education as he went along. He seems to have reinvented himself as a communicator much unlike the one India saw thus far. Rahul 2.0, as many analysts called him in Gujarat, did connect with people in an unprecedented way and evoked strong reactions. He also managed to keep up pressure on BJP with posting one question a day on Twitter.On the other hand, Modi underlined the development works done during the BJP regime in contrast to the earlier regimes and reached out to the voters as Narendrabhai, the man from the state. He weaved the success of laying the web of irrigation canals from Narmada, watering the arid regions, and improved law and order with pro-poor stand of the union government he leads at the Centre. But then came Kapil Sibal and Ram Mandir. Modi did not miss the opportunity to remind his voters that electoral considerations did not stop him from deciding on triple talaq issue. The campaign, however, has been played out on a highly inflammable platform of Patidar unrest with young Hardik Patel leading charge against BJP. As electioneering progressed, Congress put together a clever social engineering, bringing in the Thakor, Patidars and Dalits openly into its fold while leaning on the anger of Rajputs in some parts of Saurashtra. The open allegiance of the young Patidars marked a tectonic shift in its Gujarat polity. The campaign also saw a chain of temple visits by the Congress vice president, often unsettling BJPs Hindutva protagonists. In fact, Congress didnt shy away from claiming that Gandhi is a Jenaudhari Hindu in the wake of a controversy in Somnath Temple, securing his Hindutva credentials a notch higher than the rest. The underbelly of the campaign, however, veered around shades of communalism and Hardik-Alpesh-Jignesh, forming a convenient acronym HAJ. Then, Rupani-Amit-Modi came together to form RAM in a meme that had accompanying iconography to drive a point home.  