Vasudha Venugopal
  AHMEDABAD: The last day of campaigning for the first phase of Gujarat polls ended with PM Modi reminding voters in Surat about his governments proven track record in providing good governance, emphasising that his government provided good policies and infrastructure to textile and diamond traders of the city to flourish. In the course of the campaign, while Modi called himself son of the soil and listed his governments achievements, a wary Congress distanced itself from Kapil Sibals comments in SC on the Ayodhya issue, stating the remarks were made in his personal capacity as a lawyer for one of the litigants. Rahul Gandhi was also embroiled in a row during his visit to the Somnath Temple after it was said his name was written in a register maintained for non-Hindus. Gandhi, however, was conspicuous by his absence in Gujarat on Thursday whereas several BJP ministers were seen wrapping up the campaign. The contest for 12 seats in Surat, the diamond and textile hub of the country, is being viewed as a referendum on GST. BJP has changed eight of the sitting MLAs here and Union ministers Arun Jaitley and Dharmendra Pradhan, actor-turned MP Paresh Rawal and UP CM Yogi Adityanath have done rallies, so have Rahul Gandhi and Manmohan Singh. Congress hopes to milk alleged lack of development and jobs in Surendranagar district. Gandhi had visited Chamunda Mataji temple in Chotila in Surendranagar. The goddess is revered by the Kolis who dominate two seats of Surendranagar. Kolis swear by the fire to vote for their bhai. That is their commitment, said Surendranagars Congress candidate Somabhai Patel, who was earlier with BJP. States BJP government has paid much attention to Saurashtra in the last two years, with the governments flagship scheme SAUNI yojna attempting to solve water woes of the region. Both Congress and BJP have held their maximum rallies in Saurashtra and Kutch. Among other things, BJP is also banking on MSP of `4,500/quintal for groundnuts, cooperatives for farmers and water to woo voters. South Gujarat, a region with high proportion of urban population, is a BJP fortress. Party has strong presence in urban centres such as Bharuch, Ankleshwar, Vapi, Navsari and Valsad. The region has 14 reserved Tribal seats where BJP is hopeful of making inroads. In the first phase, BJP has fielded Patidars on 31 seats and Congress on 27. While BJP believes the Patidar agitation will help them consolidate votes of other communities, Congress feels getting around 30 seats in Saurashtra will strengthen their position.  