NIDHI SHARMA
  NEW DELHI: Congress is hopeful of getting a head start in Gujarat elections when 89 constituencies vote on Saturday in the first phase, on the back of its three-pronged strategy of a clear-cut campaign focused on local issues, micromanagement of booths, and pacifying unhappy leaders. The principal opposition party, which has been in the political wilderness in Gujarat for 22 years, hopes to wrest a majority of the 54 seats in Saurashtra and Kutch from BJP. Congress is banking on farm distress to break BJPs hegemony in the two regions. Textile and diamond hub Surat is perhaps the most high-profile battleground in the first phase. Being touted as the first vote on GST, Congress flew in its big guns such as former prime minister Manmohan Singh and former finance minister P Chidambaram to campaign there. Whether it manages a comeback or not, Congress seems to have managed its campaign better.THE BUILDUP   Congress started the buildup about six months back by organising dialogues with community leaders. It started with groups of farmers, doctors, architects, diamond cutters and cloth merchants. Every interaction had at least one senior Congress leader and party VP Rahul Gandhis team members.CAMPAIGN STRATEGY   The campaign strategy is based on successive polls conducted by the Congress party. It has classified assembly segments as Type A, B and C, with C being constituencies extremely tough for the party to win.URBAN GAME & MUSLIM WOMEN   The first phase has 27 urban and semiurban seats. Congress has traditionally done poorly in urban seats. An inhouse poll by the party revealed though Muslim men favoured Congress, several Muslim women were enamoured of BJP. In some urban seats, Congress found, as many as 54% Muslim women backed BJP, mainly due to its stance on triple talaq. To counter this, Congress unleashed a daro mat campaign, deputing Mahila Congress members to push its party line.BOOTH MANAGEMENT   Congress feels it can steal a march over its adversary if it ensures good booth management. It is the last mile that is the toughest, a senior Congress leader said. We have identified 70-odd seats which are battleground seats. So it all depends on whose voter comes out to vote. Each booth worker now has 10 people to ensure Congress voters turn up. Every household has already been marked on which way they are inclined, said the leader. Congress is also trying to ensure Muslim voters come out and vote, another party leader said. In many areas we have seen that BJP voters vote by 10.30 and 11 am and then there are some stray incidents and there is a police clampdown which prevents Muslim voters to come out and vote, the person said. We are now trying to ensure that our Congress voters reach the booths in the early hours.  