ET Bureau
  BANASKANTHA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi tore into the Congress party on Friday as he intensified his attacks on the Opposition during the Gujarat election campaigns home stretch, recalling all the insults that have been directed at him. His emotional oratory was accompanied by a Twitter storm that backed up the barrage, refuting speculation that the BJP bastion was facing any challenge. Gujarat votes on December 9 and 14, with counting on December 18.Where is the decency in the language Congress leaders have used for me. What did I do to deserve this. Is it my crime that the people of India have reposed their faith in me, he tweeted.He listed the various insults, starting with one by suspended Congress leader Mani Shankar Aiyar, as listed on the narendramodi. in website:* They have not called me Neech' for the first time yesterday. Mrs Sonia Gandhi and her family members have used it too. Why am I Neech  because Iwas born poor, because I am of a lower caste, because I am a Gujarati? Is that why they hate me?* What did Anand Sharma say PM Modi is mentally unstable. One Congress leader re-tweeted such an offensive tweet about me that I cannot even say it.What did Digvijaya Singh tweet about me? * Digvijaya Singh said Modi Sarkar is like Rakshas Raaj and Modi is Ravana* Pramod Tiwari, who headed the Congress in UP, said Modi is in the list of Hitler, Mussolini and Gaddafi* One more Congress leader called me a monkey.* Jairam Ramesh compared me to Bhasmasur* Beni Prasad Verma called me a mad dog. He also said we wont let this mad dog win* Ghulam Nabi Azad said I am Gangu Teli*Imran Masood, who they gave a ticket to, he said we will cut Modi into pieces* Renuka Chowdhury called me a virus. She said I bring Namonitis* I dont even want to get started on what Gujarat Congress leaders have been calling me He said popular support for the BJP was evident from the number of people in attendance.This rally is huge. I want all those pundits speculating on this election to come and see the fervour here, he tweeted. When there were floods here, Congress MLAs were relaxing in Bengaluru whereas BJP leaders were working with people, helping in relief operations... BJP was doing relief work, Congress was busy with resort work.Modi also repeated his attack on Congress leader and lawyer Kapil Sibal for seeking to link the Ayodhya case with the 2019 general election.For the last two days, a top Congress leader and an illustrious lawyer has been speaking. He is free to represent whoever he wants to, that is his prerogative. But, why does he want to prolong the Ayodhya case when all stakeholders want an early solution? he said. He says he does not represent the Sunni Wakf Board but then he should say who he is representing?Congress should expel him, he said. He also accused the Congress for obstructing the Sujalam Sufalam Yojana project. One Congress leader, a former Rajasthan CM himself, wrote a letter that Gujarat cannot use water from Mahi River, he said. He called for Sujalam Sufalam Yojana not to be implemented; he even complained to UPA government. But I said whatever may come I will provide water to North Gujarat. Modi said Congress had an anti-development mindset and believed in divisive politics.  