ANI
  The first phase of voting will be conducted in 89 assembly constituencies of Gujarat on Saturday.In 2012, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 63 of the 89 constituencies while the Congress got only 22 seats. Others won four seats.  Here is all you need to know about the first phase of elections for 182-member Gujarat Assembly.Voters Breakup  Total Registered Voters : 2,12,31,652Men : 1,11,05,933Women : 1,01,25,472Apart from it, there are seven constituencies with electors numbering more than 1.5 lakh but less than 2 lakh. Rest 82 constituencies have more than 2 lakh registered voters in each of them.  Largest Constituency  Abdasa Assembly seat in Kachchh district is the largest constituency, which is spread over 6,278 sq km.  Smallest Constituency  Karanj Assembly seat in Surat district is smallest constituency, which is spread over only 4 sq km  Total Candidates  A total of 977 candidates are in the fray, out of which 57 are women candidates.  Constituency with Highest Number of candidates  Jamnagar Rural in Saurashtra region has the highest number of contenders. Here 27 candidates are trying their luck.  Constituency with Lowest Number of candidates  Jhagadia (ST) in Bharuch district and Gandevi (ST) in Navsari district have only 3 contestants in fray.  Districts having maximum and minimum number of constituencies  While Surat district has maximum (16) number of stories, Dangs district has only one constituency.  District wise Constituency Breakup  Kachchh district: Abdasa, Mandvi , Bhuj, Anjar, Gandhidham (SC), and Rapar.Surendranagar district: Dasada (SC) , Limbdi, Wadhwan, Chotila, and Dhrangadhra.Morbi district: Morbi, Tankara, and Wankaner.Rajkot district: Rajkot East, Rajkot West, Rajkot South, Rajkot Rural (SC), Jasdan, Gondal, Jetpur, and Dhoraji.Jamnagar district: Kalavad (SC), Jamnagar Rural, Jamnagar North, Jamnagar South, and Jamjodhpur.Devbhumi Dwarka district: Khambhalia, and Dwarka.Porbandar district: Porbandar and Kutiyana.Junagadh district: Manavadar, Junagadh, Visavadar, Keshod, and Mangrol.Gir Somnath district: Somnath, Talala, Kodinar (SC), and Una.Amreli district: Dhari, Amreli, Lathi, Savarkundla, and Rajula.Bhavnagar district: Mahuva, Talaja, Gariadhar, Palitana, Bhavnagar Rural, Bhavnagar East, Bhavnagar West.Botad district: Botad and Gadhada (SC).Narmada district: Nandod (ST) and Dediapada (ST).Bharuch district: Jambusar, Vagra, Jhagadia (ST), Bharuch, and Ankleshwar.Surat district: Olpad, Mangrol (ST), Mandvi (ST), Kamrej, Surat East, Surat North, Varachha Road, Karanj, Limbayat, Udhna, Majura, Katargam, Surat West, Choryasi, Bardoli (SC), Mahuva (ST).Tapi district: Vyara (ST) and Nizar (ST).Dangs district: Dangs (ST).Navsari district: Jalalpore, Navsari, Gandevi (ST), and Bansda (ST).Valsad district: Dharampur (ST), Valsad, Pardi, Kaprada (ST), and Umbergaon (ST).  var totalpage = 2,curpage = 1,slideval = 61987391;var slider61987391 = {/*Object for multiplider*/totalpage: 2,curpage: 1,slideval: 61987391,totalslide : 7}Vignettes from Battleground Gujarat of 7NextPrevPlay SlideshowModi's Sharavan Kumar in Gujarat8 Dec, 2017Shravan Sah from Begusrai Bihar campaigning for Modi in Gujarat. He considers PM Modi as Lord Ram and spends his own money for campaigning.Presenting An 'Expensive' Gift to Minister8 Dec, 2017Smriti Irani sharing a light moment with vegetable vendors during her door to door election campaign in AhmedabadLocal connect8 Dec, 2017Rahul Gandhi with local girls at an election campaign meeting at Anjar in Kutch.Election or War, Shah is Always Ready8 Dec, 2017BJP president Amit Shah being presented a sword by his supporters during an election rally in Rapar, Bhuj.Taking a Dig at Congress8 Dec, 2017Modi in his speech referring to a picture published in a magazine that showed former PM Indira Gandhi covering her nose with a hanky to avoid foul smell of Morbi .Next