ET CONTRIBUTORS
  NEW DELHI: Benchmark indices had a lackluster start to the week, as investors were awaiting cues from the RBI policy outcome. The pronouncement of a 'neutral' stance on the policy later came up as a saving grace for the market. International markets were turbulent last week and are expected to remain so, at least in the near term, ahead of the forthcoming US Fed policy meet. The US Dow Jones Industrial Average, after hitting fresh highs, retreated sharply, despite passing of a massive tax cut proposals by the US Senate. The proposal of slashing of taxes for corporates to 20 per cent from 35 per cent could bring tectonic effects on the global front, as and when implemented. It may cause major disruptions in the smaller economies of the world, as US businesses may shift back to US, on the back of massive tax savings. With the US contributing nearly 40 per cent of the global economy. the development will certainly have far reaching consequences. Indian corporates too have started making noise for lower tax regime, which if ceded could potentially derail the fiscal deficit targets of the government. But for the time being, such worries will be sidelined by the market.Events of the Week:  Biocon became the first Indian company to get USFDA nod for its biosimilar drug Herceptin. The drug is used to treat breast cancer. The development shows Indias capability to deliver world class medicines at affordable prices. The same holds true for even the IT industry. This will reiterate the faith of both foreign and domestic investors in the Indian pharmaceutical story, which though currently in limbo, emerge stronger and more compliant to capture the huge growth opportunity offered by the US market.Technical Outlook:   The market has made a strong 'Hammer' pattern on the weekly chart. Such a pattern when formed after a correction of three weeks or more is seen as a more powerful and reliable signal for upside momentum. The market may now seek further indications to confirm whether the uptrend has really resumed or still the corrective phase is on. For traders a 'buy on dips' strategy will offer more favorable risk-to-reward ratio. They can place 10,020 as a stop loss on the Nifty50.   Expectations from the week:  Global markets will keenly await the Fed commentary on interest rate and inflation outlook. Although it is now certain that interest rate will be raised by 25 basis points, any hawkish outlook on the inflation front can cause a worldwide selloff in equities and commodities alike. The domestic market is slowly factoring in the muted outcome, if any, from the Gujarat elections. Therefore any positive surprises later, will lift the market into new bull orbit. At the same time, any negative surprises can equally whack the market into panic mode. Such eventuality, if it happens, would be another opportunity after demonitisation to invest aggressively in the market. Meanwhile, the NSE barometer Nifty ended the week at 10,265.65 up by 1.42 per cent.  