Smita Sinha
  Rahul Gandhi's Gujarat election campaign has been strikingly different from his other election campaigns. This time Rahul tried to forge a personal connection with Gujarat and the Gujaratis. The shrill campaign by the Bharatiya Janata Party indicates Rahul may have succeeded in his attempts to look and sound native.The way to a man's heart is through his stomach. This can't be more true in case of Gujaratis. Rahul took a lot of advantage of the Gujarati fondness for food.During his rally at Anjar in Kutch, he said now his kitchen was filled with Gujarati food like khakra, achaar and moongphali. He also confessed his new obsession with Gujarati food is making him gain weight.  "Meri behen mere ghar aayi, Unhone kaha tumhare kitchen mein to sab Gujarati hai...khakra Gujarati, achaar Gujarati, moongphali Gujarati. Aap logon ne meri aadatein bigad di. Mera weight badh raha hai.  (My sister came to my house. She noted that every food item in my kitchen was Gujarati...Khakra Gujarati, Achaar Gujarati, Moongphali Gujarati. You all have spoilt me. I am gaining weight now)," he said.Yesterday, taking time out of his high-octane campaign, he dropped by a pav bhaji stall at Tarapur for a quick bite. In a video tweeted by ANI, he can be seen rolling up his sleeves in anticipation as the stall-owner prepares bhajji on hot tava. As he waited for a fresh plate of pav bhajji, Gandhi shook hand with a couple of people gathered around the stall.  #WATCH Rahul Gandhi at a local &#39;Pav Bhaaji&#39; stall in Tarapur #Gujarat https://t.co/KGiPsqA8oK&mdash; ANI (@ANI)1512735530000  Earlier in November, he had fafra, gathia, jalebi and bhajia in breakfast at a roadside dhaba at Chandrola village in the Sabarkantha district. At Surat, he tasted Surti locho in a restaurant. He also had dinner in South Gujarat in a roadside restaurant.Rahul even found a family connection with Gujarat. He said his family guru, Mahatma Gandhi, was a Gujarati, whose thinking he had imbibed. He also paid a visit to Sardar Patel's birthplace at Nadiad and garlanded his statue. Paying tribute to him on his 174th birth anniversary, he tweeted, "An embodiment of integrity & strength, Sardar Patel was one of the architects of Idea of India. My tributes to him on his birth anniversary."Rahul left no stone unturned to please the Gujaratis, even if it meant wearing a tilak on his forehead and Hinduness on his sleeve. His temple run included 21 temples, including the Somnath which has been the centre of much political discord between the Congress and the BJP. He kicked off his Gujarat yatra after visiting the Dwarkadhish Temple in Dwarka. He also visited a Navarati pandal in Chandi Bazar, Jamnagar. At Bahuchara ji temple, he declared,  "Main Shiv ka bhakt hoon. Sachaai mein believe karta hoon. BJP jo bhi bole, main apni sachaai mein believe karta hu."  For good measures, he found some time for the Gujarati tribals too. He played a musical instrument and shook a leg with the adivasis at a folk dance, Timli, in Chhota Udaipur district.This is the first time Rahul has spent so much time trying to connect with the locals during an election campaign. He did not mind a show of soft Hindutva to please the Gujaratis. This could explain why the BJP is in such an overdrive.  