Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay
  Last week, while driving down the almost 230 km highway between Ahmedabad and Rajkot, I realised that the road was a shade bumpier than what was logged in memory from a ride during the 2014 Lok Sabha election. This relative decline in the quality of the road mirrors the rough ride PM Narendra Modi and his party are having in their attempt to retain electoral dominance in Gujarat. It is also testimony to a common complaint heard in the state  maintenance and expansion of infrastructure was far better when Modi was CM. His successors have been his pale shadow, forcing the PM to hit the ground like never before. Anecdotal this may be, but Modi more than anyone knows the weight of public perception.On my way, a thousand feet high hillock rose on one side of the highway. The taxi driver pointed to the structure: it is Chotila, the temple for Chamunda Mata. What he said next took my breath away: When Rahul Gandhi came for darshan, he ran up the 1,000 stairs to the temple. He is very fit, does martial arts, koi Japani naam hai. Truth is, Gandhi controversially came to seek the blessings of the goddess as part of his temple-hopping spree in late September.He walked up the 635 stairs to the shrine without pause or discomfort while many failed to keep pace. In a couple of months, his feat had been amplified and was being retold with pride. Till three years ago, similar valorous stories abounded about Modi. The cabbys version of Gandhis ascent is symptomatic of the transformation in the fortunes of the 47-year-old dynast from Indias premier political family. Ridiculed till a few weeks ago as Pappu or dumb kid, a moniker that the BJP was prohibited from using by the EC, Gandhi has been treated with greater circumspection and urgency by adversaries.This has not just to do with his finally assuming presidency of the Congress. Rather, the attention he received is due to a routine election that has turned on its head and for the first time in 22 years defies predictions for deviating from its predestined character.In Rajkot, while chatting with a man about elections, we were joined by his son, Sunny Joshi, barely 21. This was a BJP family and the young man was a first-time voter who, after getting a professional degree from a reputed private institution, chose not to take up a job and instead joined his fathers business. He epitomised the new-generation, entrepreneurial, Gujarati upper-caste Hindu who brings new skills to expand the family business. He was also a representative BJP voter, someone who would not allow canvassers for the Congress candidate to even enter his doorstep. That the BJP candidate in Sunils constituency is Chief Minister Vijay Rupani provided additional impetus to his stance.But once the preliminaries were over, he sang a different tune: No, I am not going to vote against Rupani or the BJP, par sabak to sikhana hai (we must teach them a lesson). So how would he send his message across? To begin with, by not attending public meetings and staying away from door-to-door campaign jathas that he had joined last time. Sunnys father looked haplessly as the young man listed his litany of grievances.While providing instances of economic stagnation and fantabulous ideas rolled out without adequate homework that heaped misery on people, he harped on too much arrogansee  like most of Gujarat pronounces arrogance. The BJP and its leaders, in his mind, require a rude shock, to be reminded that humility is a virtue of the powerful.This is not an election the Congress is fighting against the BJP. It is the BJP fighting against itself, having lost the goodwill of a visible section of its old voters, and they are more outspoken than they have ever been since the party established its hegemony.The Congress is in the race for a double TINA  there is no alternative to it being the alternative! Additionally, the credibility of the BJP and its mascot have taken a beating. This possibly explains the much delayed party manifesto, which was released a day before almost half of Gujarat voted. The partys famed network would have reported instances like I came across in Modhera village, Mehsana, when Joytabhai Patel, a former headman, expressed dissatisfaction with the party.Despite harsh words, the BJP may not just manage to survive this turbulence but even sweep the hustings. This would depend solely on whether Modi succeeds in his last blitzkrieg to convince voters that Gujarats pride and identity, Mughal or feudal mentality of the Congress, its appeasement of minorities and Indias growing international clout are more significant issues than what they consider to be legitimate grievances.The problem, as a retired bureaucrat  once part of Modis Gujarat model team and still an admirer of the PM  says is people are a shade fatigued of the old civilisational theme. The conversation, he says, has moved on to specifics of inequities, deficiencies, stagnation and a lack of opportunities. The BJP has also drawn up micro-level strategies for each constituency, bogging down a potential charismatic campaigner and making him fend for his seat at one place, securing endorsement of a spiritual head elsewhere and mounting a false campaign to polarise voters across several constituencies.The verdict eventually will be shaped by whether 182 local factors plus Modis overarching themes prevail over the singular sentiment of disaffection among people. Or, whether people like Sunny and Joytabhai will finally tone down anger and go back on their affirmation: This time we want the BJP out. In 2019, it will be Modi again.  