NIDHI SHARMA
  DAHOD |CHOTTA UDAIPUR: The ruling BJP hopes to make inroads into the Congress traditional vote bank among the Scheduled Tribes in Gujarat thanks to concerted efforts by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and Vishwa Hindu Parishad over the past two years.The Congress had won 16 of the 27 reserved ST seats in the state in 2012, having consolidated its vote share and seat tally in the tribal belt which is concentrated largely on the eastern side of the state in Dahod, Chotta Udaipur and Panchmahal districts.The BJPs hopes stem in part from a vast network of Ekal Vidyalayas, schools run by the VHP for tribal children. Many districts have reported a sharp increase in the number of schools over the past three years.We are daily labourers. This is the only type of profession we know, said Ramabhai, a resident of Vasti village in Jhalod Assembly constituency. But we dream for our children. Ekal Vidyalayas have provided us that. My four children are studying there. They get uniform, nutritious meals and a safe place to live, apart from the education.  Key concerns: Dilipbhai Chauhan, a small tea vendor in Dahod market area, complains GST has hit business hard  The two organisations have also initiated widespread distribution of idols of Hindu Gods in tribal-dominated blocks. A senior BJP leader in Dahod told ET on condition of anonymity, The programme has been on for two years now. Every pracharak is entrusted with the responsibility of blocks and talukas and has to cover these. Apart from our normal political discourse, these pracharaks also distribute idols.Add to this Sanghs practice of Harikatha, a form of religious discourse which involves mythological tales and folklore. A religious function is organised for Harikatha in every block of a tribal-dominated district. The ongoing election would be the first test of this strategy.So far, the BJPs development agenda has not reverberated in the tribal belt. Youths openly complain about unemployment, lower middle class about expensive education and small traders about introduction of the goods and services tax (GST). We are living hand to mouth now, said Dilipbhai Chauhan, a small tea vendor in Dahod market area.I could pick up small things to sell on credit. But now, with GST, the wholesaler has to file returns and his bills need to be clear, so he asks for full payments. It becomes very difficult for people like us with small incomes.  