Akash Sinha
  The first phase of voting in Gujarat is over, and now the political parties are leaving canvassing for the second phase on December 14. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress are locked in a very close contest. Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale has admitted Union that the BJP would retain the state but Congress's vote share would increase. Though the Congress is aggressively campaigning all over Gujarat, there are seven areas where both the parties are in neck-and-neck fight. Read below how they fare in these areas.  Rajkot West  : This BJP stronghold was won by Vajubhai Vala in 2012 when he defeated Congress candidate Rajani Atulbhai. The bypoll was necessitated after Vajubhai was made Governor of Karnataka. Vijay Rupani emerged victorious in 2014 in the bypoll on this seat. Despite 2014 win, the BJP got 9,313 fewer votes than in 2012, while the Congress votes declined by by 8075. There are over 50,000 Patidar voters in the area. The ongoing Patidar quota issue may make ruling party's return tough here.  Mehsana  : The district is dominated by Patidars and sends seven MLAs to the Gujarat Assembly. In the last elections, the BJP had won five and the Congress two seats. Vadnagar, part of Unjha Assembly constituency in Mehsana, is Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home district. Known as the economic hub of north Gujarat, Mehsana has a strong presence of the Congress. The results here will matter the most as they would be seen as a vote on Modi himself.  Surat  : The largest city in the state after Ahmedabad, it witnessed widespread protests after the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Surat has 16 assembly seats and the BJP has not lost any of them since 2002. While the GST and demonetisation made traders suffer, campaigning by Hardik Patel has polarised a large number of Patidars here.This may boost Congress' prospects in the polls. The results here will be considered a vote on GST by the BJP voter.  Anand  : Known as the milk capital of India due to Amul Dairy, here the fight is intense as the Congress has a big vote share. BJP's Rohitbhai Jashubhai Patel, the sitting MLA from BJP, won the election in 2014 bypoll securing 75,850 votes to defeat Congress candidate Kantibhai M Sodhaparmar by 5,243 votes. In 2012, BJP's Dilipbhai Manibhai Patel had secured 82,956 votes, just 987 more than Congress candidate Sodhaparmar who got 81,969 votes. Though the BJP has managed to increase the winning margin, it remains a tough contest.  Bhavnagar West  : Another close contest between the BJP and the Congress, especially because the Congress has the support of quota leader Hardik Patel, a native of this area. The BJP has fielded its state chief Jitu Vaghani while the Congress has given a ticket to Shaktisinh Gohil who is a sitting MLA from another constituency, Abdasa. In 2007, Gohil had defeated Vaghani by just 7,000 votes here. In 2012, Vaghani wrested the seat back from Congress.The constituency has of 2,41,282 voters including 36,000 Patels.  Dhoraji  : The constituency falls in the Rajkot district and went to polls in the first phase on December 9. Pravinbhai Mohanbhai Makadiya of BJP is the sitting MLA from the seat. The competition got tougher after the Congress fielded Lalit Vasoya, a close aide of Hardik Patel, against BJP candidate Harilal Madhavjibhai Patel, a former Lok Sabha MP.  Dahod  : The constituency, currently occupied by Congress MLA Vajesinhbhai P Panda, has seen extensive campaigning by top BJP leaders including Amit Shah. The tribal-populated area saw the launch of Ujjwala Scheme in 2016. Modi himself has tried to brighten BJP's chances in the district by announcing a Rs 3,800 crore for tribal development on his 66th birthday. As per some reports, most areas in the district are underdeveloped.  