Sakshi Prashar
  The Gujarat assembly election, which saw a fierce contest between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, brought down political discourse as abuses, jibes, taunts, smears and slurs hurled openly by leaders big as well as small. Here's a selection of the bad-mouthing that hit the headlines during the election campaign.  Gabbar Singh Tax  Congress president Rahul Gandhi started the high-decibel attack against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Gujarat by saying that government ignored Congresss suggestion on GST. Rahul went on to term GST as Gabbar Singh Tax, a taunt which became quite popular. Retorting to Rahul's taunt, Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed Congress and Rahul by saying that those who looted India in last 70 years can remember only dacoits. Modi ridiculed the Rahul's barb as a Grand Stupid Thought: Under their Grand Stupid Thoughts they want basic necessities of the poor to be taxed at 18%. At the same time, they want cigarettes and alcohol to be cheaper.  Where has the Chawkidar gone?  Rahul slammed Modi for his silence on a report claiming that Amit Shah's son Jay Shahs company saw a huge rise in turnover after BJP came to power in 2014.Modi ji, Jay Shah-jada kha gaya. Aap chowkidaar the ya bhagidaar? Kuch toh boliye, Rahul wrote on Twitter, referring to Modi's 'shahazada' barb against him during the last Lok Sabha elections.  Chaiwala  An online magazine of Congress, Yuva Desh, tweeted a picture of PM Modi in conversation with US President Donald Trump and UK PM Theresa May. In the image, Trump is seen correcting Modi for the pronunciation of meme while May suggests him to sell tea. Congress had to issue an apology for insulting the PM and later the tweet was deleted.  Chai bechi hai, desh nahin  While the Congress was busy mocking Modi for his background as a chaiwala, Modi took a jibe at Congress saying, Chai bechi hai, desh nahin.  The 'Neech' remark  Manishankar Aiyyar, a senior Congress leader, sparked a controversy by calling Modi as neech. Rahul asked Aiyyar to apologise for his comments and suspended him from the party. Aiyyar said he wasnt aware of the exact meaning of the word as Hindi was not his first language.  Aurangzeb raj  Soon after Rahul filed his nomination for the party president post, PM Modi took a dig at the party saying he wanted to congratulate them for ushering in 'their Aurangzeb Raj'. Modi was referring to a remark made by Aiyyar in which he contrasted the Gandhi dynasty with the Mughal dynasty.  Rs 80K mushroom for fair skin?  OBC leader Alpesh Thakur, the Congress's new import, said Modi got fairer by eating imported mushroom. "Somebody told me that Modiji has imported mushrooms from Taiwan. Each mushroom costs Rs. 80,000 and PM Modi has five every day. I was told he has been eating them since he was the chief minister."  