Special Correspondent
  Before starting his campaign tour in the politically crucial Saurashtra region of Gujarat on Wednesday, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi tweeted asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give accounts of 22 years rule of BJP in Gujarat.  First question to the PM, in 2012, he promised to build 50 lakh new houses but actually only 4.72 lakh houses were built. Will the PM tell whether it will take 45 years to fulfil the promise, he tweeted as the PM was about to start his first rally in Morbi town. After starting his two-day visit with prayers at Somnath temple, Mr. Gandhi told a gathering in Visavadar, Junagadh district, that before the polling, the PM would cry the way he had done immediately after demonetisation. He [PM Modi] is a terrific actor who will shed tears a few days before the polls. He will cry for everything but not for farmers, Mr. Gandhi said. Mr. Gandhi said farmers, students, unemployed youth and women were on the warpath but the government cared only for a few industrial groups while ignoring the masses.   The reality of Modijis government is that it can waive off debt of 1.3 lakh crore to help some industrialists but when it comes to waiving off farm loans, the government says it has no policy. I want to ask what crime the farmers have committed that your government would not extend waiver to their loans, Mr. Gandhi said, while promising complete farm loan waiver if the Congress was voted to power. Referring to agitations by Patidars, OBCs and Dalits, Mr. Gandhi said the government in Gujarat would beat up anyone who raises his voice against the State government. Mr. Gandhi repeated his charges on the Rafale deal and said that despite questions being posed to the PM and his government, there was hardly any response because the government has no answer. Questions over Rafale I asked Modiji some questions. First, is there a difference between the cost of fighter plane in the first and second contract (Rafale deal). Please give answer in yes or no. Second, why was the contract given to a private industrialist and not Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd and whether the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Security was obtained.